HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire




Har­ry Pot­ter





Har­ry Pot­ter

&

The Gob­let of Fire





by J.K. Rowl­ing





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER ONE


THE RID­DLE HOUSE



T he vil­lagers of Lit­tle Hangle­ton still called it “the Rid­dle House,” even though it had been many years since the Rid­dle fam­ily had lived there. It stood on a hill over­look­ing the vil­lage, some of its win­dows board­ed, tiles miss­ing from its roof, and ivy spread­ing unchecked over its face. Once a fine-​look­ing manor, and eas­ily the largest and grand­est build­ing for miles around, the Rid­dle House was now damp, derelict, and un­oc­cu­pied.

The Lit­tle Hangle­tons all agreed that the old house was “creepy.” Half a cen­tu­ry ago, some­thing strange and hor­ri­ble had hap­pened there, some­thing that the old­er in­hab­itants of the vil­lage still liked to dis­cuss when top­ics for gos­sip were scarce. The sto­ry had been picked over so many times, and had been em­broi­dered in so many places, that no­body was quite sure what the truth was any­more. Ev­ery ver­sion of the tale, how­ev­er, start­ed in the same place: Fifty years be­fore, at day­break on a fine sum­mer's morn­ing when the Rid­dle House had still been well kept and im­pres­sive, a maid had en­tered the draw­ing room to find all three Rid­dles dead.

The maid had run scream­ing down the hill in­to the vil­lage and roused as many peo­ple as she could.

“Ly­ing there with their eyes wide open! Cold as ice! Still in their din­ner things!”

The po­lice were sum­moned, and the whole of Lit­tle Hangle­ton had seethed with shocked cu­rios­ity and ill-​dis­guised ex­cite­ment. No­body wast­ed their breath pre­tend­ing to feel very sad about the Rid­dles, for they had been most un­pop­ular. El­der­ly Mr. and Mrs. Rid­dle had been rich, snob­bish, and rude, and their grown-​up son, Tom, had been, if any­thing, worse. All the vil­lagers cared about was the iden­ti­ty of their mur­der­er - for plain­ly, three ap­par­ent­ly healthy peo­ple did not all drop dead of nat­ural caus­es on the same night.

The Hanged Man, the vil­lage pub, did a roar­ing trade that night; the whole vil­lage seemed to have turned out to dis­cuss the mur­ders. They were re­ward­ed for leav­ing their fire­sides when the Rid­dles' cook ar­rived dra­mat­ical­ly in their midst and an­nounced to the sud­den­ly silent pub that a man called Frank Bryce had just been ar­rest­ed.

“Frank!” cried sev­er­al peo­ple. “Nev­er!”

Frank Bryce was the Rid­dles' gar­den­er. He lived alone in a run-​down cot­tage on the grounds of the Rid­dle House. Frank had come back from the war with a very stiff leg and a great dis­like of crowds and loud nois­es, and had been work­ing for the Rid­dles ev­er since.

There was a rush to buy the cook drinks and hear more de­tails.

“Al­ways thought he was odd,” she told the ea­ger­ly lis­ten­ing vil­lagers, af­ter her fourth sher­ry. “Un­friend­ly, like. I'm sure if I've of­fered him a cup­pa once, I've of­fered it a hun­dred times. Nev­er want­ed to mix, he didn't.”

“Ah, now,” said a wom­an at the bar, “he had a hard war, Frank. He likes the qui­et life. That's no rea­son to -”

“Who else had a key to the back door, then?” barked the cook. “There's been a spare key hang­ing in the gar­den­er's cot­tage far back as I can re­mem­ber! No­body forced the door last night! No bro­ken win­dows! All Frank had to do was creep up to the big house while we was all sleep­ing…”

The vil­lagers ex­changed dark looks.

“I al­ways thought that he had a nasty look about him, right enough,” grunt­ed a man at the bar.

“War turned him fun­ny, if you ask me,” said the land­lord.

“Told you I wouldn't like to get on the wrong side of Frank, didn't I, Dot?” said an ex­cit­ed wom­an in the cor­ner.

“Hor­ri­ble tem­per,” said Dot, nod­ding fer­vent­ly. “I re­mem­ber, when he was a kid…”

By the fol­low­ing morn­ing, hard­ly any­one in Lit­tle Hangle­ton doubt­ed that Frank Bryce had killed the Rid­dles.

But over in the neigh­bor­ing town of Great Hangle­ton, in the dark and dingy po­lice sta­tion, Frank was stub­born­ly re­peat­ing, again and again, that he was in­no­cent, and that the on­ly per­son he had seen near the house on the day of the Rid­dles' deaths had been a teenage boy, a stranger, dark-​haired and pale. No­body else in the vil­lage had seen any such boy, and the po­lice were quite sure Frank had in­vent­ed him.

Then, just when things were look­ing very se­ri­ous for Frank, the re­port on the Rid­dles' bod­ies came back and changed ev­ery­thing.

The po­lice had nev­er read an odd­er re­port. A team of doc­tors had ex­am­ined the bod­ies and had con­clud­ed that none of the Rid­dles had been poi­soned, stabbed, shot, stran­gles, suf­fo­cat­ed, or (as far as they could tell) harmed at all. In fact (the re­port con­tin­ued, in a tone of un­mis­tak­able be­wil­der­ment), the Rid­dles all ap­peared to be in per­fect health - apart from the fact that they were all dead. The doc­tors did note (as though de­ter­mined to find some­thing wrong with the bod­ies) that each of the Rid­dles had a look of ter­ror up­on his or her face - but as the frus­trat­ed po­lice said, who­ev­er heard of three peo­ple be­ing fright­ened to death?

As there was no proof that the Rid­dles had been mur­dered at all, the po­lice were forced to let Frank go. The Rid­dles were buried in the Lit­tle Hangle­ton church­yard, and their graves re­mained ob­jects of cu­rios­ity for a while. To ev­ery­one's sur­prise, and amid a cloud of sus­pi­cion, Frank Bryce re­turned to his cot­tage on the grounds of the Rid­dle House.

“'S far as I'm con­cerned, he killed them, and I don't care what the po­lice say,” said Dot in the Hanged Man. “And if he had any de­cen­cy, he'd leave here, know­ing as how we knows he did it.”

But Frank did not leave. He stayed to tend the gar­den for the next fam­ily who lived in the Rid­dle House, and then the next - for nei­ther fam­ily stayed long. Per­haps it was part­ly be­cause of Frank that the new own­ers said there was a nasty feel­ing about the place, which, in the ab­sence of in­hab­itants, start­ed to fall in­to dis­re­pair.



The wealthy man who owned the Rid­dle House these days nei­ther lived there nor put it to any use; they said in the vil­lage that he kept it for “tax rea­sons,” though no­body was very clear what these might be. The wealthy own­er con­tin­ued to pay Frank to do the gar­den­ing, how­ev­er. Frank was near­ing his sev­en­ty-​sev­enth birth­day now, very deaf, his bad leg stiffer than ev­er, but could be seen pot­ter­ing around the flow­er beds in fine weath­er, even though the weeds were start­ing to creep up on him, try as he might to sup­press them.

Weeds were not the on­ly things Frank had to con­tend with ei­ther. Boys from the vil­lage made a habit of throw­ing stones through the win­dows of the Rid­dle House. They rode their bi­cy­cles over the lawns Frank worked so hard to keep smooth. Once or twice, they broke in­to the old house for a dare. They knew that old Frank's de­vo­tion to the house and the grounds amount­ed al­most to an ob­ses­sion, and it amused them to see him limp­ing across the gar­den, bran­dish­ing his stick and yelling croak­ily at them. Frank, for his part, be­lieved the boys tor­ment­ed him be­cause they, like their par­ents and grand­par­ents, though him a mur­der­er. So when Frank awoke one night in Au­gust and saw some­thing very odd up at the old house, he mere­ly as­sumed that the boys had gone one step fur­ther in their at­tempts to pun­ish him.

It was Frank's bad leg that woke him; it was pain­ing him worse than ev­er in his old age. He got up and limped down­stairs in­to the kitchen with the idea of re­fill­ing his hot-​wa­ter bot­tle to ease the stiff­ness in his knee. Stand­ing at the sink, fill­ing the ket­tle, he looked up at the Rid­dle House and saw lights glim­mer­ing in its up­per win­dows. Frank knew at once what was go­ing on. The boys had bro­ken in­to the house again, and judg­ing by the flick­er­ing qual­ity of the light, they had start­ed a fire.

Frank had no tele­phone, in any case, he had deeply mis­trust­ed the po­lice ev­er since they had tak­en him in for ques­tion­ing about the Rid­dles' deaths. He put down the ket­tle at once, hur­ried back up­stairs as fast as his bad leg would al­low, and was soon back in his kitchen, ful­ly dressed and re­mov­ing a rusty old key from its hook by the door. He picked up his walk­ing stick, which was propped against the wall, and set off in­to the night.

The front door of the Rid­dle House bore no sign of be­ing forced, nor did any of the win­dows. Frank limped around to the back of the house un­til he reached a door al­most com­plete­ly hid­den by ivy, took out the old key, put it in­to the lock, and opened the door noise­less­ly.

He let him­self in­to the cav­ernous kitchen. Frank had not en­tered it for many years; nev­er­the­less, al­though it was very dark, he re­mem­bered where the door in­to the hall was, and he groped his way to­wards it, his nos­trils full of the smell of de­cay, ears pricked for any sound of foot­steps or voic­es from over­head. He reached the hall, which was a lit­tle lighter ow­ing to the large mul­lioned win­dows on ei­ther side of the front door, and start­ed to climb the stairs, bless­ing the dust that lay thick up­on the stone, be­cause it muf­fled the sound of his feet and stick.

On the land­ing, Frank turned right, and saw at once where the in­trud­ers were: At the ev­ery end of the pas­sage a door stood ajar, and a flick­er­ing light shone through the gap, cast­ing a long sliv­er of gold across the black floor. Frank edged clos­er and clos­er, he was able to see a nar­row slice of the room be­yond.

The fire, he now saw, had been lit in the grate. This sur­prised him. Then he stopped mov­ing and lis­tened in­tent­ly, for a man's voice spoke with­in the room; it sound­ed timid and fear­ful.

“There is a lit­tle more in the bot­tle, My Lord, if you are still hun­gry.”

“Lat­er,” said a sec­ond voice. This too be­longed to a man - but it was strange­ly high-​pitched, and cold as a sud­den blast of icy wind. Some­thing about that voice made the sparse hairs on the back of Frank's neck stand up. “Move me clos­er to the fire, Worm­tail.”

Frank turned his right ear to­ward the door, the bet­ter to hear. There came the clink of a bot­tle be­ing put down up­on some hard sur­face, and then the dull scrap­ing noise of a heavy chair be­ing dragged across the floor. Frank caught a glimpse of a small man, his back to the door, push­ing the chair in­to place. He was wear­ing a long black cloak, and there was a bald patch at the back of his head. Then he went out of sight again.

“Where is Nagi­ni?” said the cold voice.

“I - I don't know, My Lord,” said the first voice ner­vous­ly. “She set out to ex­plore the house, I think…”

“You will milk her be­fore we re­tire, Worm­tail,” said the sec­ond voice. “I will need feed­ing in the night. The jour­ney has tired me great­ly.”

Brow fur­rowed, Frank in­clined his good ear still clos­er to the door, lis­ten­ing very hard. There was a pause, and then the man called Worm­tail spoke again.

“My Lord, may I ask how long we are go­ing to stay here?”

“A week,” said the cold voice. “Per­haps longer. The place is mod­er­ate­ly com­fort­able, and the plan can­not pro­ceed yet. It would be fool­ish to act be­fore the Quid­ditch World Cup is over.”

Frank in­sert­ed a gnarled fin­ger in­to his ear and ro­tat­ed it. Ow­ing, no doubt, to a buildup of ear­wax, he had heard the word “Quid­ditch,” which was not a word at all.

“The - the Quid­ditch World Cup, My Lord?” said Worm­tail. (Frank dug his fin­ger still more vig­or­ous­ly in­to his ear.) “For­give me, but - I do not un­der­stand - why should we wait un­til the World Cup is over?”

“Be­cause, fool, at this very mo­ment wiz­ards are pour­ing in­to the coun­try from all over the world, and ev­ery med­dler from the Min­istry of Mag­ic will be on du­ty, on the watch for signs of un­usu­al ac­tiv­ity, check­ing and dou­ble-​check­ing iden­ti­ties. They will be ob­sessed with se­cu­ri­ty, lest the Mug­gles no­tice any­thing. So we wait.”

Frank stopped try­ing to clear out his ear. He had dis­tinct­ly heard the words “Min­istry of Mag­ic,” “wiz­ards,” and “Mug­gles.” Plain­ly, each of these ex­pres­sions meant some­thing se­cret, and Frank could think of on­ly two sorts of peo­ple who would speak in code: spies and crim­inals. Frank tight­ened his hold on his walk­ing stick once more, and lis­tened more close­ly still.

“Your Lord­ship is still de­ter­mined, then?” Worm­tail said qui­et­ly.

“Cer­tain­ly I am de­ter­mined, Worm­tail.” There was a note of men­ace in the cold voice now.

A slight pause fol­lowed - and the Worm­tail spoke, the words tum­bling from him in a rush, as though he was forc­ing him­self to say this be­fore he lost his nerve.

“It could be done with­out Har­ry Pot­ter, My Lord.”

An­oth­er pause, more pro­tract­ed, and then -

“With­out Har­ry Pot­ter?” breathed the sec­ond voice soft­ly. “I see…”

“My Lord, I do not say this out of con­cern for the boy!” said Worm­tail, his voice ris­ing squeak­ily. “The boy is noth­ing to me, noth­ing at all! It is mere­ly that if we were to use an­oth­er witch or wiz­ard - any wiz­ard - the thing could be done so much more quick­ly! If you al­lowed me to leave you for a short while - you know that I can dis­guise my­self most ef­fec­tive­ly - I could be back here in as lit­tle as two days with a suit­able per­son -”

“I could use an­oth­er wiz­ard,” said the cold voice soft­ly, “that is true…”

“My Lord, it makes sense,” said Worm­tail, sound­ing thor­ough­ly re­lieved now. “Lay­ing hands on Har­ry Pot­ter would be so dif­fi­cult, he is so well pro­tect­ed -”

“And so you vol­un­teer to go and fetch me a sub­sti­tute? I won­der…per­haps the task of nurs­ing me has be­come weari­some for you, Worm­tail? Could this sug­ges­tion of aban­don­ing the plan be noth­ing more than an at­tempt to desert me?”

“My Lord! I - I have no wish to leave you, none at all -”

“Do not lie to me!” hissed the sec­ond voice. “I can al­ways tell, Worm­tail! You are re­gret­ting that you ev­er re­turned to me. I re­volt you. I see you flinch when you look at me, feel you shud­der when you touch me…”

“No! My de­vo­tion to Your Lord­ship -”

“Your de­vo­tion is noth­ing more than cow­ardice. You would not be here if you had any­where else to go. How am I to sur­vive with­out you, when I need feed­ing ev­ery few hours? Who is to milk Nagi­ni?”

“But you seem so much stronger, My Lord -”

“Liar,” breathed the sec­ond voice. “I am no stronger, and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of the lit­tle health I have re­gained un­der your clum­sy care. Si­lence!”

Worm­tail, who had been sput­ter­ing in­co­her­ent­ly, fell silent at once. For a few sec­onds, Frank could hear noth­ing but the fire crack­ling. The sec­ond man spoke once more, in a whis­per that was al­most a hiss.

“I have my rea­sons for us­ing the boy, as I have al­ready ex­plained to you, and I will use no oth­er. I have wait­ed thir­teen years. A few more months will make no dif­fer­ence. As for the pro­tec­tion sur­round­ing the boy, I be­lieve my plan will be ef­fec­tive. All that is need­ed is a lit­tle courage from you, Worm­tail - courage you will find, un­less you wish to feel the full ex­tent of Lord Vol­der­mort's wrath -”

“My Lord, I must speak!” said Worm­tail, pan­ic in his voice now. “All through our jour­ney I have gone over the plan in my head - My Lord, Bertha Jorkin's dis­ap­pear­ance will not go un­no­ticed for long, and if we pro­ceed, if I mur­der -”

“If?” whis­pered the sec­ond voice. “If? If you fol­low the plan, Worm­tail, the Min­istry need nev­er know that any­one else has died. You will do it qui­et­ly and with­out fuss; I on­ly wish that I could do it my­self, but in my present con­di­tion…Come, Worm­tail, one more death and our path to Har­ry Pot­ter is clear. I am not ask­ing you to do it alone. By that time, my faith­ful ser­vant will have re­joined us -”

“I am a faith­ful ser­vant,” said Worm­tail, the mer­est trace of sul­len­ness in his voice.

“Worm­tail, I need some­body with brains, some­body whose loy­al­ty has nev­er wa­vered, and you, un­for­tu­nate­ly, ful­fill nei­ther re­quire­ment.”

“I found you,” said Worm­tail, and there was def­inite­ly a sulky edge to his voice now. “I was the one who found you. I brought you Bertha Jorkins.”

“That is true,” said the sec­ond man, sound­ing amused. “A stroke of bril­liance I would not have thought pos­si­ble from you, Worm­tail - though, if truth be told, you were not aware how use­ful she would be when you caught her, were you?”

“I - I thought she might be use­ful, My Lord -”

“Liar,” said the sec­ond voice again, the cru­el amuse­ment more pro­nounced than ev­er. “How­ev­er, I do not de­ny that her in­for­ma­tion was in­valu­able. With­out it, I could nev­er have formed our plan, and for that, you will have your re­ward, Worm­tail. I will al­low you to per­form an es­sen­tial task for me, one that many of my fol­low­ers would give their right hands to per­form…”

“R-​re­al­ly, My Lord? What -?” Worm­tail sound­ed ter­ri­fied again.

“Ah, Worm­tail, you don't want me to spoil the sur­prise? Your part will come at the very end…but I promise you, you will have the hon­or of be­ing just as use­ful as Bertha Jorkins.”

“You…you…” Worm­tail's voice sud­den­ly sound­ed hoarse, as though his mouth had gone very dry. “You…are go­ing…to kill me too?”

“Worm­tail, Worm­tail,” said the cold voice silk­ily, “why would I kill you? I killed Bertha be­cause I had to. She was fit for noth­ing af­ter my ques­tion­ing, quite use­less. In any case, awk­ward ques­tions would have been asked if she had gone back to the Min­istry with the news that she had met you on her hol­idays. Wiz­ards who are sup­posed to be dead would do well not to run in­to Min­istry of Mag­ic witch­es at way­side inns…”

Worm­tail mut­tered some­thing so qui­et­ly that Frank could not hear it, but it made the sec­ond man laugh - an en­tire­ly mirth­less laugh, cold as his speech.

“We could have mod­ified her mem­ory? But Mem­ory Charms can be bro­ken by a pow­er­ful wiz­ard, as I proved when I ques­tioned her. It would be an in­sult to her mem­ory not to use the in­for­ma­tion I ex­tract­ed from her, Worm­tail.”

Out in the cor­ri­dor, Frank sud­den­ly be­came aware that the hand grip­ping his walk­ing stick was slip­pery with sweat. The man with the cold voice had killed a wom­an. He was talk­ing about it with­out any kind of re­morse - with amuse­ment. He was dan­ger­ous - a mad­man. And he was plan­ning more mur­ders - this boy, Har­ry Pot­ter, who­ev­er he was - was in dan­ger -

Frank knew what he must do. Now, if ev­er, was the time to go to the po­lice. He would creep out of the house and head straight for the tele­phone box in the vil­lage…but the cold voice was speak­ing again, and Frank re­mained where he was, frozen to the spot, lis­ten­ing with all his might.

“One more mur­der…my faith­ful ser­vant at Hog­warts…Har­ry Pot­ter is as good as mine, Worm­tail. It is de­cid­ed. There will be no more ar­gu­ment. But qui­et…I think I hear Nagi­ni…”

And the sec­ond man's voice changed. He start­ed mak­ing nois­es such as Frank had nev­er heard be­fore; he was hiss­ing and spit­ting with­out draw­ing breath. Frank thought he must be hav­ing some sort of fit or seizure.

And then Frank heard move­ment be­hind him in the dark pas­sage­way. He turned to look, and found him­self par­alyzed with fright.

Some­thing was slith­er­ing to­ward him along the dark cor­ri­dor floor, and as it drew near­er to the sliv­er of fire­light, he re­al­ized with a thrill of ter­ror that it was a gi­gan­tic snake, at least twelve feet long. Hor­ri­fied, trans­fixed, Frank stared as its un­du­lat­ing body cut a wide, curv­ing track through the thick dust on the floor, com­ing clos­er and clos­er - What was he to do? The on­ly means of es­cape was in­to the room where the two men sat plot­ting mur­der, yet if he stayed where he was the snake would sure­ly kill him -

But be­fore he had made his de­ci­sion, the snake was lev­el with him, and then, in­cred­ibly, mirac­ulous­ly, it was pass­ing; it was fol­low­ing the spit­ting, hiss­ing nois­es made by the cold voice be­yond the door, and in sec­onds, the tip of its di­amond-​pat­terned tail had van­ished through the gap.

There was sweat on Frank's fore­head now, and the hand on the walk­ing stick was trem­bling. In­side the room, the cold voice was con­tin­uing to hiss, and Frank was vis­it­ed by a strange idea, an im­pos­si­ble idea…This man could talk to snakes.

Frank didn't un­der­stand what was go­ing on. He want­ed more than any­thing to be back in his bed with his hot-​wa­ter bot­tle. The prob­lem was that his legs didn't seem to want to move. As he stood there shak­ing and try­ing to mas­ter him­self, the cold voice switched abrupt­ly to En­glish again.

“Nagi­ni has in­ter­est­ing news, Worm­tail,” it said.

“In-​in­deed, My Lord?” said Worm­tail.

“In­deed, yes,” said the voice, “Ac­cord­ing to Nagi­ni, there is an old Mug­gle stand­ing right out­side this room, lis­ten­ing to ev­ery word we say.”

Frank didn't have a chance to hide him­self. There were foot­steps and then the door of the room was flung wide open.

A short, bald­ing man with gray­ing hair, a point­ed nose, and small, wa­tery eyes stood be­fore Frank, a mix­ture of fear and alarm in his face.

“In­vite him in­side, Worm­tail. Where are your man­ners?”

The cold voice was com­ing from the an­cient arm­chair be­fore the fire, but Frank couldn't see the speak­er. the snake, on the oth­er hand, was curled up on the rot­ting hearth rug, like some hor­ri­ble trav­es­ty of a pet dog.

Worm­tail beck­oned Frank in­to the room. Though still deeply shak­en, Frank took a firmer grip on his walk­ing stick and limped over the thresh­old.

The fire was the on­ly source of light in the room; it cast long, spi­dery shad­ows up­on the walls. Frank stared at the back of the arm­chair; the man in­side it seemed to be even small­er than his ser­vant, for Frank couldn't even see the back of his head.

“You heard ev­ery­thing, Mug­gle?” said the cold voice.

“What's that you're call­ing me?” said Frank de­fi­ant­ly, for now that he was in­side the room, now that the time had come for some sort of ac­tion, he felt braver; it had al­ways been so in the war.

“I am call­ing you a Mug­gle,” said the voice cool­ly. “It means that you are not a wiz­ard.”

“I don't know what you mean by wiz­ard,” said Frank, his voice grow­ing stead­ier. “All I know is I've heard enough to in­ter­est the po­lice tonight, I have. You've done mur­der and you're plan­ning more! And I'll tell you this too,” he added, on a sud­den in­spi­ra­tion, “my wife knows I'm up here, and if I don't come back -”

“You have no wife,” said the cold voice, very qui­et­ly. “No­body knows you are here. You told no­body that you were com­ing. Do not lie to Lord Volde­mort, Mug­gle, for he knows…he al­ways knows…”

“Is that right?” said Frank rough­ly. “Lord, is it? Well, I don't think much of your man­ners, My Lord. Turn 'round and face me like a man, why don't you?”

“But I am not a man, Mug­gle,” said the cold voice, bare­ly au­di­ble now over the crack­ling of the flames. “I am much, much more than a man. How­ev­er…why not? I will face you…Worm­tail, come turn my chair around.”

The ser­vant gave a whim­per.

“You heard me, Worm­tail.”

Slow­ly, with his face screwed up, as though he would rather have done any­thing than ap­proach his mas­ter and the hearth rug where the snake lay, the small man walked for­ward and be­gan to turn the chair. The snake lift­ed its ug­ly tri­an­gu­lar head and hissed slight­ly as the legs of the chair snagged on its rug.

And then the chair was fac­ing Frank, and he saw what was sit­ting in it. His walk­ing stick fell to the floor with a clat­ter. He opened his mouth and let out a scream. He was scream­ing so loud­ly that he nev­er heard the words the thing in the chair spoke as it raised a wand. There was a flash of green light, a rush­ing sound, and Frank Bryce crum­pled. He was dead be­fore he hit the floor.

Two hun­dred miles away, the boy called Har­ry Pot­ter woke with a start.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWO


THE SCAR



H ar­ry lay flat on his back, breath­ing hard as though he had been run­ning. He had awo­ken from a vivid dream with his hands pressed over his face. The old scar on his fore­head, which was shaped like a bolt of light­ning, was burn­ing be­neath his fin­gers as though some­one had just pressed a white-​hot wire to his skin.

He sat up, one hand still on his scar, the oth­er hand reach­ing out in the dark­ness for his glass­es, which were on the bed­side ta­ble. He put them on and his bed­room came in­to clear­er fo­cus, lit by a faint, misty or­ange light that was fil­ter­ing through the cur­tains from the street lamp out­side the win­dow.

Har­ry ran his fin­gers over the scar again. It was still painful. He turned on the lamp be­side him, scram­bled out of bed, crossed the room, opened his wardrobe, and peered in­to the mir­ror on the in­side of the door. A skin­ny boy of four­teen looked back at him, his bright green eyes puz­zled un­der his un­tidy black hair. He ex­am­ined the light­ning-​bolt scar of his re­flec­tion more close­ly. It looked nor­mal, but it was still sting­ing.

Har­ry tried to re­call what he had been dream­ing about be­fore he had awo­ken. It had seemed so re­al…There had been two peo­ple he knew and one he didn't…He con­cen­trat­ed hard, frown­ing, try­ing to re­mem­ber…

The dim pic­ture of a dark­ened room came to him…There had been a snake on a hearth rug…a small man called Pe­ter, nick­named Worm­tail…and a cold, high voice…the voice of Lord Volde­mort. Har­ry felt as though an ice cube had slipped down in­to his stom­ach at the very thought…

He closed his eyes tight­ly and tried to re­mem­ber what Volde­mort had looked like, but it was im­pos­si­ble…All Har­ry knew was that at the mo­ment when Volde­mort's chair had swung around, and he, Har­ry, had seen what was sit­ting in it, he had felt a spasm of hor­ror, which had awo­ken him…or had that been the pain in his scar?

And who had the old man been? For there had def­inite­ly been an old man; Har­ry had watched him fall to the ground. It was all be­com­ing con­fused. Har­ry put his face in­to his hands, block­ing out his bed­room, try­ing to hold on to the pic­ture of that dim­ly lit room, but it was like try­ing to keep wa­ter in his cupped hands; the de­tails were now trick­ling away as fast as he tried to hold on to them…Volde­mort and Worm­tail had been talk­ing about some­one they had killed, though Har­ry could not re­mem­ber the name…and they had been plot­ting to kill some­one else…him!

Har­ry took his face out of his hands, opened his eyes, and stared around his bed­room as though ex­pect­ing to see some­thing un­usu­al there. As it hap­pened, there was an ex­traor­di­nary num­ber of un­usu­al things in this room. A large wood­en trunk stood open at the foot of his bed, re­veal­ing a caul­dron, broom­stick, black robes, and as­sort­ed spell­books. Rolls of parch­ment lit­tered that part of his desk that was not tak­en up by the large, emp­ty cage in which his snowy owl, Hed­wig, usu­al­ly perched. On the floor be­side his bed a book lay open; Har­ry had been read­ing it be­fore he fell asleep last night. The pic­tures in this book were all mov­ing. Men in bright or­ange robes were zoom­ing in and out of sight on broom­sticks, throw­ing a red ball to one an­oth­er.

Har­ry walked over to the book, picked it up, and watched one of the wiz­ards score a spec­tac­ular goal by putting the ball through a fifty-​foot-​high hoop. Then he snapped the book shut. Even Quid­ditch - in Har­ry's opin­ion, the best sport in the world - couldn't dis­tract him at the mo­ment. He placed Fly­ing with the Can­nons on his bed­side ta­ble, crossed to the win­dow, and drew back the cur­tains to sur­vey the street be­low.

Priv­et Drive looked ex­act­ly as a re­spectable sub­ur­ban street would be ex­pect­ed to look in the ear­ly hours of Sat­ur­day morn­ing. All the cur­tains were closed. As far as Har­ry could see through the dark­ness, there wasn't a liv­ing crea­ture in sight, not even a cat.

And yet…and yet…Har­ry went rest­less­ly back to the bed and sat down on it, run­ning a fin­ger over his scar again. It wasn't the pain that both­ered him; Har­ry was no stranger to pain and in­jury. He had lost all the bones from his right arm once and had them painful­ly re­grown in a night. The same arm had been pierced by a ven­omous foot-​long fang not long af­ter­ward. On­ly last year Har­ry had fall­en fifty feet from an air­borne broom­stick. He was used to bizarre ac­ci­dents and in­juries; they were un­avoid­able if you at­tend­ed Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry and had a knack for at­tract­ing a lot of trou­ble.

No, the thing that was both­er­ing Har­ry was the last time his scar had hurt him, it had been be­cause Volde­mort had been close by…But Volde­mort couldn't be here, now…The idea of Volde­mort lurk­ing in Priv­et Drive was ab­surd, im­pos­si­ble…

Har­ry lis­tened close­ly to the si­lence around him. Was he half ex­pect­ing to hear the creak of a stair or the swish of a cloak? And then he jumped slight­ly as he heard his cousin Dud­ley give a tremen­dous grunt­ing snore from the next room.

Har­ry shook him­self men­tal­ly; he was be­ing stupid. There was no one in the house with him ex­cept Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia, and Dud­ley, and they were plain­ly still asleep, their dreams un­trou­bled and pain­less.

Asleep was the way Har­ry liked the Durs­leys best; it wasn't as though they were ev­er any help to him awake. Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia, and Dud­ley were Har­ry's on­ly liv­ing rel­atives. They were Mug­gles who hat­ed and de­spised mag­ic in any form, which meant that Har­ry was about as wel­come in their house as dry rot. They had ex­plained away Har­ry's long ab­sences at Hog­warts over the last three years by telling ev­ery­one that he went to St. Bru­tus's Se­cure Cen­ter for In­cur­ably Crim­inal Boys. They knew per­fect­ly well that, as an un­der­age wiz­ard, Har­ry wasn't al­lowed to use mag­ic out­side Hog­warts, but they were still apt to blame him for any­thing that went wrong about the house. Har­ry had nev­er been able to con­fide in them or tell them any­thing about his life in the wiz­ard­ing world. The very idea of go­ing to them when they awoke, and telling them about his scar hurt­ing him, and about his wor­ries about Volde­mort, was laugh­able.

And yet it was be­cause of Volde­mort that Har­ry had come to live with the Durs­leys in the first place. If it hadn't been for Volde­mort, Har­ry would not have had the light­ning scar on his fore­head. If it hadn't been for Volde­mort, Har­ry would still have had par­ents.…

Har­ry had been a year old the night that Volde­mort - the most pow­er­ful Dark wiz­ard for a cen­tu­ry, a wiz­ard who had been gain­ing pow­er steadi­ly for eleven years - ar­rived at his house and killed his fa­ther and moth­er. Volde­mort had then turned his wand on Har­ry; he had per­formed the curse that had dis­posed of many full-​grown witch­es and wiz­ards in his steady rise to pow­er - and, in­cred­ibly, it had not worked. In­stead of killing the small boy, the curse had re­bound­ed up­on Volde­mort. Har­ry had sur­vived with noth­ing but a light­ning-​shaped cut on his fore­head, and Volde­mort had been re­duced to some­thing bare­ly alive. His pow­ers gone, his life al­most ex­tin­guished, Volde­mort had fled; the ter­ror in which the se­cret com­mu­ni­ty of witch­es and wiz­ards had lived for so long had lift­ed, Volde­mort's fol­low­ers had dis­band­ed, and Har­ry Pot­ter had be­come fa­mous.

It had been enough of a shock for Har­ry to dis­cov­er, on his eleventh birth­day, that he was a wiz­ard; it had been even more dis­con­cert­ing to find out that ev­ery­one in the hid­den wiz­ard­ing world knew his name. Har­ry had ar­rived at Hog­warts to find that heads turned and whis­pers fol­lowed him wher­ev­er he went. But he was used to it now: At the end of this sum­mer, he would be start­ing his fourth year at Hog­warts, and Har­ry was al­ready count­ing the days un­til he would be back at the cas­tle again.

But there was still a fort­night to go be­fore he went back to school. He looked hope­less­ly around his room again, and his eye paused on the birth­day cards his two best friends had sent him at the end of Ju­ly. What would they say if Har­ry wrote to them and told them about his scar hurt­ing?

At once, Hermione Granger's voice seemed to fill his head, shrill and pan­icky.

“Your scar hurt? Har­ry, that's re­al­ly se­ri­ous…Write to Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore! nd I'll go and check Com­mon Mag­ical Ail­ments and Af­flic­tions…Maybe there's some­thing in there about curse scars.…”

Yes, that would be Hermione's ad­vice: Go straight to the head­mas­ter of Hog­warts, and in the mean­time, con­sult a book. Har­ry stared out of the win­dow at the inky blue-​black sky. He doubt­ed very much whether a book could help him now. As far as he knew, he was the on­ly liv­ing per­son to have sur­vived a curse like Volde­mort's; it was high­ly un­like­ly, there­fore, that he would find his symp­toms list­ed in Com­mon Mag­ical Ail­ments and Af­flic­tions. As for in­form­ing the head­mas­ter, Har­ry had no idea where Dum­ble­dore went dur­ing the sum­mer hol­idays. He amused him­self for a mo­ment, pic­tur­ing Dum­ble­dore, with his long sil­ver beard, full length wiz­ard's robes, and point­ed hat, stretched out on a beach some­where, rub­bing sun­tan lo­tion on­to his long crooked nose. Wher­ev­er Dum­ble­dore was, though, Har­ry was sure that Hed­wig would be able to find him; Har­ry's owl had nev­er yet failed to de­liv­er a let­ter to any­one, even with­out an ad­dress. But what would he write?

Dear Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, Sor­ry to both­er you, but my scar hurt this morn­ing. Yours sin­cere­ly, Har­ry Pot­ter.

Even in­side his head the words sound­ed stupid.

And so he tried to imag­ine his oth­er best friend, Ron Weasley's, re­ac­tion, and in a mo­ment, Ron's red hair and long-​nosed, freck­led face seemed to swim be­fore Har­ry, wear­ing a be­mused ex­pres­sion.

“Your scar hurt? But …but You-​Know-​Who can't be near you now, can he? I mean…you'd know, wouldn't you? He'd be try­ing to do you in again, wouldn't be? I dun­no, Har­ry, maybe curse scars al­ways twinge a bit…I'll ask Dad…”

Mr. Weasley was a ful­ly qual­ified wiz­ard who worked in the Mis­use of Mug­gle Ar­ti­facts Of­fice at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, but he didn't have any par­tic­ular ex­per­tise in the mat­ter of curs­es, as far as Har­ry knew. In any case, Har­ry didn't like the idea of the whole Weasley fam­ily know­ing that he, Har­ry, was get­ting jumpy about a few mo­ments' pain. Mrs. Weasley would fuss worse than Hermione, and Fred and George, Ron's six­teen year old twin broth­ers, might think Har­ry was los­ing his nerve. The Weasleys were Har­ry's fa­vorite fam­ily in the world; he was hop­ing that they might in­vite him to stay any time now (Ron had men­tioned some­thing about the Quid­ditch World Cup), and he some­how didn't want his vis­it punc­tu­at­ed with anx­ious in­quiries about his scar.

Har­ry knead­ed his fore­head with his knuck­les. What he re­al­ly want­ed (and it felt al­most shame­ful to ad­mit it to him­self) was some­one like - some­one like a par­ent: an adult wiz­ard whose ad­vice he could ask with­out feel­ing stupid, some­one who cared about him, who had had ex­pe­ri­ence with Dark Mag­ic.…

And then the so­lu­tion came to him. It was so sim­ple, and so ob­vi­ous, that he couldn't be­lieve it had tak­en so long - Sir­ius.

Har­ry leapt up from the bed, hur­ried across the room, and sat down at his desk; he pulled a piece of parch­ment to­ward him, load­ed his ea­gle-​feath­er quill with ink, wrote Dear Sir­ius, then paused, won­der­ing how best to phrase his prob­lem, still mar­veling at the fact that he hadn't thought of Sir­ius straight away. But then, per­haps it wasn't so sur­pris­ing - af­ter all, he had on­ly found out that Sir­ius was his god­fa­ther two months ago.

There was a sim­ple rea­son for Sir­ius's com­plete ab­sence from Har­ry's life un­til then - Sir­ius had been in Azk­aban, the ter­ri­fy­ing wiz­ard jail guard­ed by crea­tures called de­men­tors, sight­less, soul-​suck­ing fiends who had come to search for Sir­ius at Hog­warts when he had es­caped. Yet Sir­ius had been in­no­cent - the mur­ders for which he had been con­vict­ed had been com­mit­ted by Worm­tail, Volde­mort's sup­port­er, whom near­ly ev­ery­body now be­lieved dead. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione knew oth­er­wise, how­ev­er; they had come face-​to-​face with Worm­tail on­ly the pre­vi­ous year, though on­ly Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore had be­lieved their sto­ry.

For one glo­ri­ous hour, Har­ry had be­lieved that he was leav­ing the Durs­leys at last, be­cause Sir­ius had of­fered him a home once his name had been cleared. But the chance had been snatched away from him - Worm­tail had es­caped be­fore they could take him to the Min­istry of Mag­ic, and Sir­ius had had to flee for his life. Har­ry had helped him es­cape on the back of a hip­pogriff called Buck­beak, and since then, Sir­ius had been on the run. The home Har­ry might have had if Worm­tail had not es­caped had been haunt­ing him all sum­mer. It had been dou­bly hard to re­turn to the Durs­leys know­ing that he had so near­ly es­caped them for­ev­er.

Nev­er­the­less, Sir­ius had been of some help to Har­ry, even if he couldn't be with him. It was due to Sir­ius that Har­ry now had all his school things in his bed­room with him. The Durs­leys had nev­er al­lowed this be­fore; their gen­er­al wish of keep­ing Har­ry as mis­er­able as pos­si­ble, cou­pled with their fear of his pow­ers, had led them to lock his school trunk in the cup­board un­der the stairs ev­ery sum­mer pri­or to this. But their at­ti­tude had changed since they had found out that Har­ry had a dan­ger­ous mur­der­er for a god­fa­ther - for Har­ry had con­ve­nient­ly for­got­ten to tell them that Sir­ius was in­no­cent.

Har­ry had re­ceived two let­ters from Sir­ius since he had been back at Priv­et Drive. Both had been de­liv­ered, not by owls (as was usu­al with wiz­ards), but by large, bright­ly col­ored trop­ical birds. Hed­wig had not ap­proved of these flashy in­trud­ers; she had been most re­luc­tant to al­low them to drink from her wa­ter tray be­fore fly­ing off again. Har­ry, on the oth­er hand, had liked them; they put him in mind of palm trees and white sand, and he hoped that, wher­ev­er Sir­ius was (Sir­ius nev­er said, in case the let­ters were in­ter­cept­ed), he was en­joy­ing him­self. Some­how, Har­ry found it hard to imag­ing de­men­tors sur­viv­ing for long in bright sun­light, per­haps that was why Sir­ius had gone South. Sir­ius's let­ters, which were now hid­den be­neath the high­ly use­ful loose floor­boards un­der Har­ry's bed, sound­ed cheer­ful, and in both of them he had re­mind­ed Har­ry to call on him if ev­er Har­ry need­ed to. Well, he need­ed to right now, all right.…

Har­ry's lamp seemed to grow dim­mer as the cold gray light that pre­cedes sun­rise slow­ly crept in­to the room. Fi­nal­ly, when the sun had risen, when his bed­room walls had turned gold, and when sounds of move­ment could be heard from Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia's room, Har­ry cleared his desk of crum­pled pieces of parch­ment and reread his fin­ished let­ter.



Dear Sir­ius,

Thanks for your last let­ter. That bird was enor­mous; it could hard­ly get through my win­dow. Things are the same as usu­al here. Dud­ley's di­et isn't go­ing too well. My aunt found him smug­gling dough­nuts in­to his room yes­ter­day. They told him they'd have to cut his pock­et mon­ey if he keeps do­ing it, so he got re­al­ly an­gry and chucked his PlaySta­tion out of the win­dow. That's a sort of com­put­er thing you can play games on. Bit stupid re­al­ly, now he hasn't even got Mega-​Mu­ti­la­tion Part Three to take his mind off things.

I'm okay, main­ly be­cause the Durs­leys are ter­ri­fied you might turn up and turn them all in­to bats if I ask you to.

A weird thing hap­pened this morn­ing, though. My scar hurt again. Last time that hap­pened it was be­cause Volde­mort was at Hog­warts. But I don't reck­on he can be any­where near me now, can he? Do you know if curse scars some­times hurt years af­ter­ward?

I'll send this with Hed­wig when she gets back; she's off hunt­ing at the mo­ment. Say hel­lo to Buck­beak for me.

Har­ry



Yes, thought Har­ry, that looked all right. There was no point putting in the dream; he didn't want it to look as though he was too wor­ried. He fold­ed up the parch­ment and laid it aside on his desk, ready for when Hed­wig re­turned. Then he got to his feet, stretched, and opened his wardrobe once more. With­out glanc­ing at his re­flec­tion he start­ed to get dressed be­fore go­ing down to break­fast.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THREE


THE IN­VI­TA­TION



B y the time Har­ry ar­rived in the kitchen, the three Durs­leys were al­ready seat­ed around the ta­ble. None of them looked up as he en­tered or sat down. Un­cle Ver­non's large red face was hid­den be­hind the morn­ing's Dai­ly Mail, and Aunt Petu­nia was cut­ting a grape­fruit in­to quar­ters, her lips pursed over her horse-​like teeth.

Dud­ley looked fu­ri­ous and sulky, and some­how seemed to be tak­ing up even more space than usu­al. This was say­ing some­thing, as he al­ways took up an en­tire side of the square ta­ble by him­self. When Aunt Petu­nia put a quar­ter of unsweet­ened grape­fruit on­to Dud­ley's plate with a tremu­lous “There you are, Did­dy dar­ling,” Dud­ley glow­ered at her. His life had tak­en a most un­pleas­ant turn since he had come home for the sum­mer with his end-​of-​year re­port.

Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia had man­aged to find ex­cus­es for his bad marks as usu­al: Aunt Petu­nia al­ways in­sist­ed that Dud­ley was a very gift­ed boy whose teach­ers didn't un­der­stand him, while Un­cle Ver­non main­tained that “he didn't want some swot­ty lit­tle nan­cy boy for a son any­way.” They al­so skat­ed over the ac­cu­sa­tions of bul­ly­ing in the re­port - “He's a bois­ter­ous lit­tle boy, but he wouldn't hurt a fly!” Aunt Petu­nia had said tear­ful­ly.

How­ev­er, at the bot­tom of the re­port there were a few well-​cho­sen com­ments from the school nurse that not even Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia could ex­plain away. No mat­ter how much Aunt Petu­nia wailed that Dud­ley was big-​boned, and that his poundage was re­al­ly pup­py fat, and that he was a grow­ing boy who need­ed plen­ty of food, the fact re­mained that the school out­fit­ters didn't stock knicker­bock­ers big enough for him any­more. The school nurse had seen what Aunt Petu­nia's eyes - so sharp when it came to spot­ting fin­ger­prints on her gleam­ing walls, and in ob­serv­ing the com­ings and go­ings of the neigh­bors - sim­ply re­fused to see: that far from need­ing ex­tra nour­ish­ment, Dud­ley had reached rough­ly the size and weight of a young killer whale.

So - af­ter many tantrums, af­ter ar­gu­ments that shook Har­ry's bed­room floor, and many tears from Aunt Petu­nia - the new regime had be­gun. The di­et sheet that had been sent by the Smelt­ings school nurse had been taped to the fridge, which had been emp­tied of all Dud­ley's fa­vorite things - fizzy drinks and cakes, choco­late bars and burg­ers and filled in­stead with fruit and veg­eta­bles and the sorts of things that Un­cle Ver­non called “rab­bit food.” To make Dud­ley feel bet­ter about it all, Aunt Petu­nia had in­sist­ed that the whole fam­ily fol­low the di­et too. She now passed a grape­fruit quar­ter to Har­ry. He no­ticed that it was a lot small­er than Dud­ley's. Aunt Petu­nia seemed to feet that the best way to keep up Dud­ley's morale was to make sure that he did, at least, get more to eat than Har­ry.

But Aunt Petu­nia didn't know what was hid­den un­der the loose floor­board up­stairs. She had no idea that Har­ry was not fol­low­ing the di­et at all. The mo­ment he had got wind of the fact that he was ex­pect­ed to sur­vive the sum­mer on car­rot sticks, Har­ry had sent Hed­wig to his friends with pleas for help, and they had risen to the oc­ca­sion mag­nif­icent­ly. Hed­wig had re­turned from Hermione's house with a large box stuffed full of sug­ar-​free snacks. (Hermione's par­ents were den­tists.) Ha­grid, the Hog­warts game­keep­er, had obliged with a sack full of his own home­made rock cakes. (Har­ry hadn't touched these; he had had too much ex­pe­ri­ence of Ha­grid's cook­ing.) Mrs. Weasley, how­ev­er, had sent the fam­ily owl, Er­rol, with an enor­mous fruit­cake and as­sort­ed meat pies. Poor Er­rol, who was el­der­ly and fee­ble, had need­ed a full five days to re­cov­er from the jour­ney. And then on Har­ry's birth­day (which the Durs­leys had com­plete­ly ig­nored) he had re­ceived four su­perb birth­day cakes, one each from Ron, Hermione, Ha­grid, and Sir­ius. Har­ry still had two of them left, and so, look­ing for­ward to a re­al break­fast when he got back up­stairs, he ate his grape­fruit with­out com­plaint.

Un­cle Ver­non laid aside his pa­per with a deep sniff of dis­ap­proval and looked down at his own grape­fruit quar­ter.

“Is this it?” he said grumpi­ly to Aunt Petu­nia.

Aunt Petu­nia gave him a se­vere look, and then nod­ded point­ed­ly at Dud­ley, who had al­ready fin­ished his own grape­fruit quar­ter and was eye­ing Har­ry's with a very sour look in his pig­gy lit­tle eyes.

Un­cle Ver­non gave a great sigh, which ruf­fled his large, bushy mus­tache, and picked up his spoon.

The door­bell rang. Un­cle Ver­non heaved him­self out of his chair and set off down the hall. Quick as a flash, while his moth­er was oc­cu­pied with the ket­tle, Dud­ley stole the rest of Un­cle Ver­non's grape­fruit.

Har­ry heard talk­ing at the door, and some­one laugh­ing, and Un­cle Ver­non an­swer­ing curt­ly. Then the front door closed, and the sound of rip­ping pa­per came from the hall.

Aunt Petu­nia set the teapot down on the ta­ble and looked cu­ri­ous­ly around to see where Un­cle Ver­non had got to. She didn't have to wait long to find out; af­ter about a minute, he was back. He looked livid.

“You,” he barked at Har­ry. “In the liv­ing room. Now.”

Be­wil­dered, won­der­ing what on earth he was sup­posed to have done this time, Har­ry got up and fol­lowed Un­cle Ver­non out of the kitchen and in­to the next room. Un­cle Ver­non closed the door sharply be­hind both of them.

“So,” he said, march­ing over to the fire­place and turn­ing to face Har­ry as though he were about to pro­nounce him un­der ar­rest. “So.”

Har­ry would have dear­ly loved to have said, “So what?” but he didn't feel that Un­cle Ver­non's tem­per should be test­ed this ear­ly in the morn­ing, es­pe­cial­ly when it was al­ready un­der se­vere strain from lack of food. He there­fore set­tled for look­ing po­lite­ly puz­zled.

“This just ar­rived,” said Un­cle Ver­non. He bran­dished a piece of pur­ple writ­ing pa­per at Har­ry. “A let­ter. About you.”

Har­ry's con­fu­sion in­creased. Who would be writ­ing to Un­cle Ver­non about him? Who did he know who sent let­ters by the post­man?

Un­cle Ver­non glared at Har­ry, then looked down at the let­ter and be­gan to read aloud:



Dear Mr. and Mrs. Durs­ley,

We have nev­er been in­tro­duced, but I am sure you have heard a great deal from Har­ry about my son Ron.

As Har­ry might have told you, the fi­nal of the Quid­ditch World Cup takes place this Mon­day night, and my hus­band, Arthur, has just man­aged to get prime tick­ets through his con­nec­tions at the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Games and Sports.

I do hope you will al­low us to take Har­ry to the match, as this re­al­ly is a once-​in-​a-​life­time op­por­tu­ni­ty; Britain hasn't host­ed the cup for thir­ty years, and tick­ets are ex­treme­ly hard to come by. We would of course be glad to have Har­ry stay for the re­main­der of the sum­mer hol­idays, and to see him safe­ly on­to the train back to school.

It w ould be best for Har­ry to send us your an­swer as quick­ly as pos­si­ble in the nor­mal way, be­cause the Mug­gle post­man has nev­er de­liv­ered to our house, and I am not sure he even knows where it is.

Hop­ing to see Har­ry soon,

Yours sin­cere­ly,



Mol­ly Weasley

P.S. I do hope we've put enough stamps on.



Un­cle Ver­non fin­ished read­ing, put his hand back in­to his breast pock­et, and drew out some­thing else.

“Look at this,” he growled.

He held up the en­ve­lope in which Mrs. Weasley's let­ter had come, and Har­ry had to fight down a laugh. Ev­ery bit of it was cov­ered in stamps ex­cept for a square inch on the front, in­to which Mrs. Weasley had squeezed the Durs­leys' ad­dress in minute writ­ing.

“She did put enough stamps on, then,” said Har­ry, try­ing to sound as though Mrs. Weasley's was a mis­take any­one could make. His un­cle's eyes flashed.

“The post­man no­ticed,” he said through grit­ted teeth. “Very in­ter­est­ed to know where this let­ter came from, he was. That's why he rang the door­bell. Seemed to think it was fun­ny.”

Har­ry didn't say any­thing. Oth­er peo­ple might not un­der­stand why Un­cle Ver­non was mak­ing a fuss about too many stamps, but Har­ry had lived with the Durs­leys too long not to know how touchy they were about any­thing even slight­ly out of the or­di­nary. Their worst fear was that some­one would find out that they were con­nect­ed (how­ev­er dis­tant­ly) with peo­ple like Mrs. Weasley.

Un­cle Ver­non was still glar­ing at Har­ry, who tried to keep his ex­pres­sion neu­tral. If he didn't do or say any­thing stupid, he might just be in for the treat of a life­time. He wait­ed for Un­cle Ver­non to say some­thing, but he mere­ly con­tin­ued to glare. Har­ry de­cid­ed to break the si­lence.

“So - can I go then?” he asked.

A slight spasm crossed Un­cle Ver­non's large pur­ple face. The mus­tache bris­tled. Har­ry thought he knew what was go­ing on be­hind the mus­tache: a fu­ri­ous bat­tle as two of Un­cle Ver­non's most fun­da­men­tal in­stincts came in­to con­flict. Al­low­ing Har­ry to go would make Har­ry hap­py, some­thing Un­cle Ver­non had strug­gled against for thir­teen years. On the oth­er hand, al­low­ing Har­ry to dis­ap­pear to the Weasleys' for the rest of the sum­mer would get rid of him two weeks ear­li­er than any­one could have hoped, and Un­cle Ver­non hat­ed hav­ing Har­ry in the house. To give him­self think­ing time, it seemed, he looked down at Mrs. Weasley's let­ter again.

“Who is this wom­an?” he said, star­ing at the sig­na­ture with dis­taste.

“You've seen her,” said Har­ry. “She's my friend Ron's moth­er, she was meet­ing him off the Hog - off the school train at the end of last term.”

He had al­most said “Hog­warts Ex­press,” and that was a sure way to get his un­cle's tem­per up. No­body ev­er men­tioned the name of Har­ry's school aloud in the Durs­ley house­hold.

Un­cle Ver­non screwed up his enor­mous face as though try­ing to re­mem­ber some­thing very un­pleas­ant.

“Dumpy sort of wom­an?” he growled fi­nal­ly. “Load of chil­dren with red hair?”

Har­ry frowned. He thought it was a bit rich of Un­cle Ver­non to call any­one “dumpy,” when his own son, Dud­ley, had fi­nal­ly achieved what he'd been threat­en­ing to do since the age of three, and be­come wider than he was tall.

Un­cle Ver­non was pe­rus­ing the let­ter again.

“Quid­ditch,” he mut­tered un­der his breath. “Quid­ditch - what is this rub­bish?”

Har­ry felt a sec­ond stab of an­noy­ance.

“It's a sport,” he said short­ly. “Played on broom-”

“All right, all right!” said Un­cle Ver­non loud­ly. Har­ry saw, with some sat­is­fac­tion, that his un­cle looked vague­ly pan­icky. Ap­par­ent­ly his nerves couldn't stand the sound of the word “broom­sticks” in his liv­ing room. He took refuge in pe­rus­ing the let­ter again. Har­ry saw his lips form the words “send us your an­swer…in the nor­mal way.” He scowled.

“What does she mean, 'the nor­mal way'?” he spat.

“Nor­mal for us,” said Har­ry, and be­fore his un­cle could stop him, he added, “you know, owl post. That's what's nor­mal for wiz­ards.”

Un­cle Ver­non looked as out­raged as if Har­ry had just ut­tered a dis­gust­ing swear­word. Shak­ing with anger, he shot a ner­vous look through the win­dow, as though ex­pect­ing to see some of the neigh­bors with their ears pressed against the glass.

“How many times do I have to tell you not to men­tion that un­nat­ural­ness un­der my roof?” he hissed, his face now a rich plum col­or. “You stand there, in the clothes Petu­nia and I have put on your un­grate­ful back -”

“On­ly af­ter Dud­ley fin­ished with them,” said Har­ry cold­ly, and in­deed, he was dressed in a sweat­shirt so large for him that he had had to roll back the sleeves five times so as to be able to use his hands, and which fell past the knees of his ex­treme­ly bag­gy jeans.

“I will not be spo­ken to like that!” said Un­cle Ver­non, trem­bling with rage.

But Har­ry wasn't go­ing to stand for this. Gone were the days when he had been forced to take ev­ery sin­gle one of the Durs­leys' stupid rules. He wasn't fol­low­ing Dud­ley's di­et, and he wasn't go­ing to let Un­cle Ver­non stop him from go­ing to the Quid­ditch World Cup, not if he could help it. Har­ry took a deep, steady­ing breath and then said, “Okay, I can't see the World Cup. Can I go now, then? On­ly I've got a let­ter to Sir­ius I want to fin­ish. You know - my god­fa­ther.”

He had done it, he had said the mag­ic words. Now he watched the pur­ple re­cede blotchi­ly from Un­cle Ver­non's face, mak­ing it look like bad­ly mixed black cur­rant ice cream.

“You're - you're writ­ing to him, are you?” said Un­cle Ver­non, in a would-​be calm voice - but Har­ry had seen the pupils of his tiny eyes con­tract with sud­den fear.

“Well - yeah,” said Har­ry, ca­su­al­ly. “It's been a while since he heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn't he might start think­ing some­thing's wrong.”

He stopped there to en­joy the ef­fect of these words. He could al­most see the cogs work­ing un­der Un­cle Ver­non's thick, dark, neat­ly part­ed hair. If he tried to stop Har­ry writ­ing to Sir­ius, Sir­ius would think Har­ry was be­ing mis­treat­ed. If he told Har­ry he couldn't go to the Quid­ditch World Cup, Har­ry would write and tell Sir­ius, who would know Har­ry was be­ing mis­treat­ed. There was on­ly one thing for Un­cle Ver­non to do. Har­ry could see the con­clu­sion form­ing in his un­cle's mind as though the great mus­tached face were trans­par­ent. Har­ry tried not to smile, to keep his own face as blank as pos­si­ble. And then -

“Well, all right then. You can go to this rud­dy…this stupid…this World Cup thing. You write and tell these - these Weasleys they're to pick you up, mind. I haven't got time to go drop­ping you off all over the coun­try. And you can spend the rest of the sum­mer there. And you can tell your - your god­fa­ther…tell him…tell him you're go­ing.”

“Okay then,” said Har­ry bright­ly.

He turned and walked to­ward the liv­ing room door, fight­ing the urge to jump in­to the air and whoop. He was go­ing…he was go­ing to the Weasleys', he was go­ing to watch the Quid­ditch World Cup!

Out­side in the hall he near­ly ran in­to Dud­ley, who had been lurk­ing be­hind the door, clear­ly hop­ing to over­hear Har­ry be­ing told off. He looked shocked to see the broad grin on Har­ry's face.

“That was an ex­cel­lent break­fast, wasn't it?” said Har­ry. “I feel re­al­ly full, don't you?”

Laugh­ing at the as­ton­ished look on Dud­ley's face, Har­ry took the stairs three at a time, and hurled him­self back in­to his bed­room.

The first thing he saw was that Hed­wig was back. She was sit­ting in her cage, star­ing at Har­ry with her enor­mous am­ber eyes, and click­ing her beak in the way that meant she was an­noyed about some­thing. Ex­act­ly what was an­noy­ing her be­came ap­par­ent al­most at once.

“OUCH!” said Har­ry as what ap­peared to be a small, gray, feath­ery ten­nis ball col­lid­ed with the side of his head. Har­ry mas­saged the spot fu­ri­ous­ly, look­ing up to see what had hit him, and saw a minute owl, small enough to fit in­to the palm of his hand, whizzing ex­cit­ed­ly around the room like a loose fire­work. Har­ry then re­al­ized that the owl had dropped a let­ter at his feet. Har­ry bent down, rec­og­nized Ron's hand­writ­ing, then tore open the en­ve­lope. In­side was a hasti­ly scrib­bled note.



Har­ry - DAD GOT THE TICK­ETS - Ire­land ver­sus Bul­gar­ia, Mon­day night. Mum's writ­ing to the Mug­gles to ask you to stay. They might al­ready have the let­ter, I don't know how fast Mug­gle post is. Thought I'd send this with Pig any­way.



Har­ry stared at the word “Pig,” then looked up at the tiny owl now zoom­ing around the light fix­ture on the ceil­ing. He had nev­er seen any­thing that looked less like a pig. Maybe he couldn't read Ron's writ­ing. He went back to the let­ter:



We're com­ing for you whether the Mug­gles like it or not, you can't miss the World Cup, on­ly Mum and Dad reck­on it's bet­ter if we pre­tend to ask their per­mis­sion first. If they say yes, send Pig back with your an­swer pron­to, and we'll come and get you at five o'clock on Sun­day. If they say no, send Pig back pron­to and we'll come and get you at five o'clock on Sun­day any­way.

Hermione's ar­riv­ing this af­ter­noon. Per­cy's start­ed work - the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation. Don't men­tion any­thing about Abroad while you're here un­less you want the pants bored off you.

See you soon -

Ron



“Calm down!” Har­ry said as the small owl flew low over his head, twit­ter­ing mad­ly with what Har­ry could on­ly as­sume was pride at hav­ing de­liv­ered the let­ter to the right per­son. “Come here, I need you to take my an­swer back!”

The owl flut­tered down on top of Hed­wig's cage. Hed­wig looked cold­ly up at it, as though dar­ing it to try and come any clos­er.

Har­ry seized his ea­gle-​feath­er quill once more, grabbed a fresh piece of parch­ment, and wrote:



Ron, it's all okay, the Mug­gles say I can come. See you five o'clock to­mor­row. Can't wait.

Har­ry



He fold­ed this note up very small, and with im­mense dif­fi­cul­ty, tied it to the tiny owl's leg as it hopped on the spot with ex­cite­ment. The mo­ment the note was se­cure, the owl was off again; it zoomed out of the win­dow and out of sight.

Har­ry turned to Hed­wig.

“Feel­ing up to a long jour­ney?” he asked her.

Hed­wig hoot­ed in a dig­ni­fied sort of a way.

“Can you take this to Sir­ius for me?” he said, pick­ing up his let­ter. “Hang on…I just want to fin­ish it.”

He un­fold­ed the parch­ment and hasti­ly added a postscript.



If you want to con­tact me, I'll be at my friend Ron Weasley's for the rest of the sum­mer. His dad's got us tick­ets for the Quid­ditch World Cup!



The let­ter fin­ished, he tied it to Hed­wig's leg; she kept un­usu­al­ly still, as though de­ter­mined to show him how a re­al post owl should be­have.

“I'll be at Ron's when you get back, all right?” Har­ry told her.

She nipped his fin­ger af­fec­tion­ate­ly, then, with a soft swoosh­ing noise, spread her enor­mous wings and soared out of the open win­dow.

Har­ry watched her out of sight, then crawled un­der his bed, wrenched up the loose floor­board, and pulled out a large chunk of birth­day cake. He sat there on the floor eat­ing it, sa­vor­ing the hap­pi­ness that was flood­ing through him. He had cake, and Dud­ley had noth­ing but grape­fruit; it was a bright sum­mer's day, he would be leav­ing Priv­et Drive to­mor­row, his scar felt per­fect­ly nor­mal again, and he was go­ing to watch the Quid­ditch World Cup. It was hard, just now, to feel wor­ried about any­thing - even Lord Volde­mort.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER FOUR


BACK TO THE BUR­ROW



B y twelve o'clock the next day, Har­ry's school trunk was packed with his school things and all his most prized pos­ses­sions - the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak he had in­her­it­ed from his fa­ther, the broom­stick he had got­ten from Sir­ius, the en­chant­ed map of Hog­warts he had been giv­en by Fred and George Weasley last year. He had emp­tied his hid­ing place un­der the loose floor­board of all food, dou­ble-​checked ev­ery nook and cran­ny of his bed­room for for­got­ten spell­books or quills, and tak­en down the chart on the wall count­ing down the days to Septem­ber the first, on which he liked to cross off the days re­main­ing un­til his re­turn to Hog­warts.

The at­mo­sphere in­side num­ber four, Priv­et Drive was ex­treme­ly tense. The im­mi­nent ar­rival at their house of an as­sort­ment of wiz­ards was mak­ing the Durs­leys up­tight and ir­ri­ta­ble. Un­cle Ver­non had looked down­right alarmed when Har­ry in­formed him that the Weasleys would be ar­riv­ing at five o'clock the very next day.

“I hope you told them to dress prop­er­ly, these peo­ple,” he snarled at once. “I've seen the sort of stuff your lot wear. They'd bet­ter have the de­cen­cy to put on nor­mal clothes, that's all.”

Har­ry felt a slight sense of fore­bod­ing. He had rarely seen Mr. or Mrs. Weasley wear­ing any­thing that the Durs­leys would call “nor­mal.” Their chil­dren might don Mug­gle cloth­ing dur­ing the hol­idays, but Mr. and Mrs. Weasley usu­al­ly wore long robes in vary­ing states of shab­bi­ness. Har­ry wasn't both­ered about what the neigh­bors would think, but he was anx­ious about how rude the Durs­leys might be to the Weasleys if they turned up look­ing like their worst idea of wiz­ards.

Un­cle Ver­non had put on his best suit. To some peo­ple, this might have looked like a ges­ture of wel­come, but Har­ry knew it was be­cause Un­cle Ver­non want­ed to look im­pres­sive and in­tim­idat­ing. Dud­ley, on the oth­er hand, looked some­how di­min­ished. This was not be­cause the di­et was at last tak­ing ef­fect, but due to fright. Dud­ley had emerged from his last en­counter with a ful­ly grown wiz­ard with a curly pig's tail pok­ing out of the seat of his trousers, and Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non had had to pay for its re­moval at a pri­vate hos­pi­tal in Lon­don. It wasn't al­to­geth­er sur­pris­ing, there­fore, that Dud­ley kept run­ning his hand ner­vous­ly over his back­side, and walk­ing side­ways from room to room, so as not to present the same tar­get to the en­emy.

Lunch was an al­most silent meal. Dud­ley didn't even protest at the food (cot­tage cheese and grat­ed cel­ery). Aunt Petu­nia wasn't, eat­ing any­thing at all. Her arms were fold­ed, her lips were pursed, and she seemed to be chew­ing her tongue, as though bit­ing back the fu­ri­ous di­atribe she longed to throw at Har­ry.

“They'll be driv­ing, of course?” Un­cle Ver­non barked across the ta­ble.

“Er,” said Har­ry.

He hadn't thought of that. How were the Weasleys go­ing to pick him up? They didn't have a car any­more; the old Ford An­glia they had once owned was cur­rent­ly run­ning wild in the For­bid­den For­est at Hog­warts. But Mr. Weasley had bor­rowed a Min­istry of Mag­ic car last year; pos­si­bly he would do the same to­day?

“I think so,” said Har­ry.

Un­cle Ver­non snort­ed in­to his mus­tache. Nor­mal­ly, Un­cle Ver­non would have asked what car Mr. Weasley drove; he tend­ed to judge oth­er men by how big and ex­pen­sive their cars were. But Har­ry doubt­ed whether Un­cle Ver­non would have tak­en to Mr. Weasley even if he drove a Fer­rari.

Har­ry spent most of the af­ter­noon in his bed­room; he couldn't stand watch­ing Aunt Petu­nia peer out through the net cur­tains ev­ery few sec­onds, as though there had been a warn­ing about an es­caped rhinoceros. Fi­nal­ly, at a quar­ter to five, Har­ry went back down­stairs and in­to the liv­ing room.

Aunt Petu­nia was com­pul­sive­ly straight­en­ing cush­ions. Un­cle Ver­non was pre­tend­ing to read the pa­per, but his tiny eyes were not mov­ing, and Har­ry was sure he was re­al­ly lis­ten­ing with all his might for the sound of an ap­proach­ing car. Dud­ley was crammed in­to an arm­chair, his porky hands be­neath him, clamped firm­ly around his bot­tom. Har­ry couldn't take the ten­sion; he left the room and went and sat on the stairs in the hall, his eyes on his watch and his heart pump­ing fast from ex­cite­ment and nerves.

But five o'clock came and then went. Un­cle Ver­non, per­spir­ing slight­ly in his suit, opened the front door, peered up and down the street, then with­drew his head quick­ly.

“They're late!” he snarled at Har­ry.

“I know,” said Har­ry. “Maybe - er - the traf­fic's bad, or some­thing.”

Ten past five…then a quar­ter past five…Har­ry was start­ing to feel anx­ious him­self now. At half past, he heard Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia con­vers­ing in terse mut­ters in the liv­ing room.

“No con­sid­er­ation at all.”

“We might've had an en­gage­ment.”

“Maybe they think they'll get in­vit­ed to din­ner if they're late.”

“Well, they most cer­tain­ly won't be,” said Un­cle Ver­non, and Har­ry heard him stand up and start pac­ing the liv­ing room. “They'll take the boy and go, there'll be no hang­ing around. That's if they're com­ing at all. Prob­ably mis­tak­en the day. I dare­say their kind don't set much store by punc­tu­al­ity. Ei­ther that or they drive some tin-​pot car that's bro­ken d -AAAAAAAAR­RRRRGH!”

Har­ry jumped up. From the oth­er side of the liv­ing room door came the sounds of the three Durs­leys scram­bling, pan­ic-​strick­en, across the room. Next mo­ment Dud­ley came fly­ing in­to the hall, look­ing ter­ri­fied.

“What hap­pened?” said Har­ry. “What's the mat­ter?”

But Dud­ley didn't seem able to speak. Hands still clamped over his but­tocks, he wad­dled as fast as he could in­to the kitchen. Har­ry hur­ried in­to the liv­ing room.

Loud bang­ings and scrap­ings were com­ing from be­hind the Durs­leys' board­ed-​up fire­place, which had a fake coal fire plugged in front of it.

“What is it?” gasped Aunt Petu­nia, who had backed in­to the wall and was star­ing, ter­ri­fied, to­ward the fire. “What is it, Ver­non?”

But they were left in doubt bare­ly a sec­ond longer. Voic­es could be heard from in­side the blocked fire­place.

“Ouch! Fred, no - go back, go back, there's been some kind of mis­take - tell George not to - OUCH! George, no, there's no room, go back quick­ly and tell Ron -”

“Maybe Har­ry can hear us, Dad - maybe he'll be able to let us out -”

There was a loud ham­mer­ing of fists on the boards be­hind the elec­tric fire.

“Har­ry? Har­ry, can you hear us?”

The Durs­leys round­ed on Har­ry like a pair of an­gry wolver­ines.

“What is this?” growled Un­cle Ver­non. “What's go­ing on?”

“They - they've tried to get here by Floo pow­der,” said Har­ry, fight­ing a mad de­sire to laugh. “They can trav­el by fire - on­ly you've blocked the fire­place - hang on -”

He ap­proached the fire­place and called through the boards.

“Mr. Weasley? Can you hear me?”

The ham­mer­ing stopped. Some­body in­side the chim­ney piece said, “Shh!”

“Mr. Weasley, it's Har­ry…the fire­place has been blocked up. You won't be able to get through there.”

“Damn!” said Mr. Weasley's voice. “What on earth did they want to block up the fire­place for?”

“They've got an elec­tric fire,” Har­ry ex­plained.

“Re­al­ly?” said Mr. Weasley's voice ex­cit­ed­ly. “Eclec­tic, you say? With a plug? Gra­cious, I must see that….Let's think…Ouch, Ron!”

Ron's voice now joined the oth­ers'.

“What are we do­ing here? Has some­thing gone wrong?”

“Oh no, Ron,” came Fred's voice, very sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “No, this is ex­act­ly where we want­ed to end up.”

“Yeah, we're hav­ing the time of our lives here,” said George, whose voice sound­ed muf­fled, as though he was squashed against the wall.

“Boys, boys…” said Mr. Weasley vague­ly. “I'm try­ing to think what to do….Yes…on­ly way…Stand back, Har­ry.”

Har­ry re­treat­ed to the so­fa. Un­cle Ver­non, how­ev­er, moved for­ward.

“Wait a mo­ment!” he bel­lowed at the fire. “What ex­act­ly are you go­ing to -”

BANG.

The elec­tric fire shot across the room as the board­ed-​up fire­place burst out­ward, ex­pelling Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, and Ron in a cloud of rub­ble and loose chip­pings. Aunt Petu­nia shrieked and fell back­ward over the cof­fee ta­ble; Un­cle Ver­non caught her be­fore she hit the floor, and gaped, speech­less, at the Weasleys, all of whom had bright red hair, in­clud­ing Fred and George, who were iden­ti­cal to the last freck­le.

“That's bet­ter,” pant­ed Mr. Weasley, brush­ing dust from his long green robes and straight­en­ing his glass­es. “Ah - you must be Har­ry's aunt and un­cle!”

Tall, thin, and bald­ing, he moved to­ward Un­cle Ver­non, his hand out­stretched, but Un­cle Ver­non backed away sev­er­al paces, drag­ging Aunt Petu­nia. Words ut­ter­ly failed Un­cle Ver­non. His best suit was cov­ered in white dust, which had set­tled in his hair and mus­tache and made him look as though he had just aged thir­ty years.

“Er - yes - sor­ry about that,” said Mr. Weasley, low­er­ing his hand and look­ing over his shoul­der at the blast­ed fire­place. “It's all my fault. It just didn't oc­cur to me that we wouldn't be able to get out at the oth­er end. I had your fire­place con­nect­ed to the Floo Net­work, you see - just for an af­ter­noon, you know, so we could get Har­ry. Mug­gle fire­places aren't sup­posed to be con­nect­ed, strict­ly speak­ing - but I've got a use­ful con­tact at the Floo Reg­ula­tion Pan­el and he fixed it for me. I can put it right in a jiffy, though, don't wor­ry. I'll light a fire to send the boys back, and then I can re­pair your fire­place be­fore I Dis­ap­pa­rate.”

Har­ry was ready to bet that the Durs­leys hadn't un­der­stood a sin­gle word of this. They were still gap­ing at Mr. Weasley, thun­der­struck. Aunt Petu­nia stag­gered up­right again and hid be­hind Un­cle Ver­non.

“Hel­lo, Har­ry!” said Mr. Weasley bright­ly. “Got your trunk ready?”

“It's up­stairs,” said Har­ry, grin­ning back.

“We'll get it,” said Fred at once. Wink­ing at Har­ry, he and George left the room. They knew where Har­ry's bed­room was, hav­ing once res­cued him from it in the dead of night. Har­ry sus­pect­ed that Fred and George were hop­ing for a glimpse of Dud­ley; they had heard a lot about him from Har­ry.

“Well,” said Mr. Weasley, swing­ing his arms slight­ly, while he tried to find words to break the very nasty si­lence. “Very - erm - very nice place you've got here.”

As the usu­al­ly spot­less liv­ing room was now cov­ered in dust and bits of brick, this re­mark didn't go down too well with the Durs­leys. Un­cle Ver­non's face pur­pled once more, and Aunt Petu­nia start­ed chew­ing her tongue again. How­ev­er, they seemed too scared to ac­tu­al­ly say any­thing.

Mr. Weasley was look­ing around. He loved ev­ery­thing to do with Mug­gles. Har­ry could see him itch­ing to go and ex­am­ine the tele­vi­sion and the video recorder.

“They run off eck­el­tric­ity, do they?” he said knowl­edge­ably. “Ah yes, I can see the plugs. I col­lect plugs,” he added to Un­cle Ver­non. “And bat­ter­ies. Got a very large col­lec­tion of bat­ter­ies. My wife thinks I'm mad, but there you are.”

Un­cle Ver­non clear­ly thought Mr. Weasley was mad too. He moved ev­er so slight­ly to the right, screen­ing Aunt Petu­nia from view, as though he thought Mr. Weasley might sud­den­ly run at them and at­tack.

Dud­ley sud­den­ly reap­peared in the room. Har­ry could hear the clunk of his trunk on the stairs, and knew that the sounds had scared Dud­ley out of the kitchen. Dud­ley edged along the wall, gaz­ing at Mr. Weasley with ter­ri­fied eyes, and at­tempt­ed to con­ceal him­self be­hind his moth­er and fa­ther. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, Un­cle Ver­non's bulk, while suf­fi­cient to hide bony Aunt Petu­nia, was nowhere near enough to con­ceal Dud­ley.

“Ah, this is your cousin, is it, Har­ry?” said Mr. Weasley, tak­ing an­oth­er brave stab at mak­ing con­ver­sa­tion.

“Yep,” said Har­ry, “that's Dud­ley.”

He and Ron ex­changed glances and then quick­ly looked away from each oth­er; the temp­ta­tion to burst out laugh­ing was al­most over­whelm­ing. Dud­ley was still clutch­ing his bot­tom as though afraid it might fall off. Mr. Weasley, how­ev­er, seemed gen­uine­ly con­cerned at Dud­ley's pe­cu­liar be­hav­ior. In­deed, from the tone of his voice when he next spoke, Har­ry was quite sure that Mr. Weasley thought Dud­ley was quite as mad as the Durs­leys thought he was, ex­cept that Mr. Weasley felt sym­pa­thy rather than fear.

“Hav­ing a good hol­iday, Dud­ley?” he said kind­ly.

Dud­ley whim­pered. Har­ry saw his hands tight­en still hard­er over his mas­sive back­side.

Fred and George came back in­to the room car­ry­ing Har­ry's school trunk. They glanced around as they en­tered and spot­ted Dud­ley. Their faces cracked in­to iden­ti­cal evil grins.

“Ah, right,” said Mr. Weasley. “Bet­ter get crack­ing then.”

He pushed up the sleeves of his robes and took out his wand. Har­ry saw the Durs­leys draw back against the wall as one.

“In­cen­dio!” said Mr. Weasley, point­ing his wand at the hole in the wall be­hind him.

Flames rose at once in the fire­place, crack­ling mer­ri­ly as though they had been burn­ing for hours. Mr. Weasley took a small draw­string bag from his pock­et, un­tied it, took a pinch of the pow­der in­side, and threw it on­to the flames, which turned emer­ald green and roared high­er than ev­er.

“Off you go then, Fred,” said Mr. Weasley.

“Com­ing,” said Fred. “Oh no - hang on -”

A bag of sweets had spilled out of Fred's pock­et and the con­tents were now rolling in ev­ery di­rec­tion - big, fat tof­fees in bright­ly col­ored wrap­pers.

Fred scram­bled around, cram­ming them back in­to his pock­et, then gave the Durs­leys a cheery wave, stepped for­ward, and walked right in­to the fire, say­ing “the Bur­row!” Aunt Petu­nia gave a lit­tle shud­der­ing gasp. There was a whoosh­ing sound, and Fred van­ished.

“Right then, George,” said Mr. Weasley, “you and the trunk.”

Har­ry helped George car­ry the trunk for­ward in­to the flames and turn it on­to its end so that he could hold it bet­ter. Then, with a sec­ond whoosh, George had cried “the Bur­row!” and van­ished too.

“Ron, you next,” said Mr. Weasley.

“See you,” said Ron bright­ly to the Durs­leys. He grinned broad­ly at Har­ry, then stepped in­to the fire, shout­ed “the Bur­row!” and dis­ap­peared.

Now Har­ry and Mr. Weasley alone re­mained.

“Well…'bye then,” Har­ry said to the Durs­leys.

They didn't say any­thing at all. Har­ry moved to­ward the fire, but just as he reached the edge of the hearth, Mr. Weasley put out a hand and held him back. He was look­ing at the Durs­leys in amaze­ment.

“Har­ry said good-​bye to you,” he said. “Didn't you hear him?”

“It doesn't mat­ter,” Har­ry mut­tered to Mr. Weasley. “Hon­est­ly, I don't care.”

Mr. Weasley did not re­move his hand from Har­ry's shoul­der.

“You aren't go­ing to see your nephew till next sum­mer,” he said to Un­cle Ver­non in mild in­dig­na­tion. “Sure­ly you're go­ing to say good-​bye?”

Un­cle Ver­non's face worked fu­ri­ous­ly. The idea of be­ing taught con­sid­er­ation by a man who had just blast­ed away half his liv­ing room wall seemed to be caus­ing him in­tense suf­fer­ing. But Mr. Weasley's wand was still in his hand, and Un­cle Ver­non's tiny eyes dart­ed to it once, be­fore he said, very re­sent­ful­ly, “Good-​bye, then.”

“See you,” said Har­ry, putting one foot for­ward in­to the green flames, which felt pleas­ant­ly like warm breath. At that mo­ment, how­ev­er, a hor­ri­ble gag­ging sound erupt­ed be­hind him, and Aunt Petu­nia start­ed to scream.

Har­ry wheeled around. Dud­ley was no longer stand­ing be­hind his par­ents. He was kneel­ing be­side the cof­fee ta­ble, and he was gag­ging and sput­ter­ing on a foot-​long, pur­ple, slimy thing that was pro­trud­ing from his mouth. One be­wil­dered sec­ond lat­er, Har­ry re­al­ized that the foot-​long thing was Dud­ley's tongue - and that a bright­ly col­ored tof­fee wrap­per lay on the floor be­fore him.

Aunt Petu­nia hurled her­self on­to the ground be­side Dud­ley, seized the end of his swollen tongue, and at­tempt­ed to wrench it out of his mouth; un­sur­pris­ing­ly, Dud­ley yelled and sput­tered worse than ev­er, try­ing to fight her off. Un­cle Ver­non was bel­low­ing and wav­ing his arms around, and Mr. Weasley had to shout to make him­self heard.

“Not to wor­ry, I can sort him out!” he yelled, ad­vanc­ing on Dud­ley with his wand out­stretched, but Aunt Petu­nia screamed worse than ev­er and threw her­self on top of Dud­ley, shield­ing him from Mr. Weasley.

“No, re­al­ly!” said Mr. Weasley des­per­ate­ly. “It's a sim­ple pro­cess it was the tof­fee - my son Fred - re­al prac­ti­cal jok­er - but it's on­ly an En­gorge­ment Charm - at least, I think it is - please, I can cor­rect it -”

But far from be­ing re­as­sured, the Durs­leys be­came more pan­ic- strick­en; Aunt Petu­nia was sob­bing hys­ter­ical­ly, tug­ging Dud­ley's tongue as though de­ter­mined to rip it out; Dud­ley ap­peared to be suf­fo­cat­ing un­der the com­bined pres­sure of his moth­er and his tongue; and Un­cle Ver­non, who had lost con­trol com­plete­ly, seized a chi­na fig­ure from on top of the side­board and threw it very hard at Mr. Weasley, who ducked, caus­ing the or­na­ment to shat­ter in the blast­ed fire­place.

“Now re­al­ly!” said Mr. Weasley an­gri­ly, bran­dish­ing his wand. “I'm try­ing to help!”

Bel­low­ing like a wound­ed hip­po, Un­cle Ver­non snatched up an­oth­er or­na­ment.

“Har­ry, go! Just go!” Mr. Weasley shout­ed, his wand on Un­cle Ver­non. “I'll sort this out!”

Har­ry didn't want to miss the fun, but Un­cle Ver­non's sec­ond or­na­ment nar­row­ly missed his left ear, and on bal­ance he thought it best to leave the sit­ua­tion to Mr. Weasley. He stepped in­to the fire, look­ing over his shoul­der as he said “the Bur­row!” His last fleet­ing glimpse of the liv­ing room was of Mr. Weasley blast­ing a third or­na­ment out of Un­cle Ver­non's hand with his wand, Aunt Petu­nia scream­ing and ly­ing on top of Dud­ley, and Dud­ley's tongue lolling around like a great slimy python. But next mo­ment Har­ry had be­gun to spin very fast, and the Durs­leys' liv­ing room was whipped out of sight in a rush of emer­ald-​green flames.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER FIVE


WEASLEYS' WIZ­ARD WHEEZES



H ar­ry spun faster and faster, el­bows tucked tight­ly to his sides, blurred fire­places flash­ing past him, un­til he start­ed to feel sick and closed his eyes. Then, when at last he felt him­self slow­ing down, he threw out his hands and came to a halt in time to pre­vent him­self from falling face for­ward out of the Weasleys' kitchen fire.

“Did he eat it?” said Fred ex­cit­ed­ly, hold­ing out a hand to pull Har­ry to his feet.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, straight­en­ing up. “What was it?”

“Ton-​Tongue Tof­fee,” said Fred bright­ly. “George and I in­vent­ed them, and we've been look­ing for some­one to test them on all sum­mer.…”

The tiny kitchen ex­plod­ed with laugh­ter; Har­ry looked around and saw that Ron and George were sit­ting at the scrubbed wood­en ta­ble with two red-​haired peo­ple Har­ry had nev­er seen be­fore, though he knew im­me­di­ate­ly who they must be: Bill and Char­lie, the two el­dest Weasley broth­ers.

“How're you do­ing, Har­ry?” said the near­er of the two, grin­ning at him and hold­ing out a large hand, which Har­ry shook, feel­ing cal­lus­es and blis­ters un­der his fin­gers. This had to be Char­lie, who worked with drag­ons in Ro­ma­nia. Char­lie was built like the twins, short­er and stock­ier than Per­cy and Ron, who were both long and lanky. He had a broad, good-​na­tured face, which was weath­er-​beat­en and so freck­ly that he looked al­most tanned; his arms were mus­cu­lar, and one of them had a large, shiny burn on it.

Bill got to his feet, smil­ing, and al­so shook Har­ry's hand. Bill came as some­thing of a sur­prise. Har­ry knew that he worked for the wiz­ard­ing bank, Gringotts, and that Bill had been Head Boy at Hog­warts; Har­ry had al­ways imag­ined Bill to be an old­er ver­sion of Per­cy: fussy about rule-​break­ing and fond of boss­ing ev­ery­one around. How­ev­er, Bill was - there was no oth­er word for it - cool. He was tall, with long hair that he had tied back in a pony­tail. He was wear­ing an ear­ring with what looked like a fang dan­gling from it. Bill's clothes would not have looked out of place at a rock con­cert, ex­cept that Har­ry rec­og­nized his boots to be made, not of leather, but of drag­on hide.

Be­fore any of them could say any­thing else, there was a faint pop­ping noise, and Mr. Weasley ap­peared out of thin air at George's shoul­der. He was look­ing an­gri­er than Har­ry had ev­er seen him.

“That wasn't fun­ny Fred!” he shout­ed. “What on earth did you give that Mug­gle boy?”

“I didn't give him any­thing,” said Fred, with an­oth­er evil grin. I just dropped it….It was his fault he went and ate it, I nev­er told him to."

“You dropped it on pur­pose!” roared Mr. Weasley. “You knew he'd eat it, you knew he was on a di­et -”

“How big did his tongue get?” George asked ea­ger­ly.

“It was four feet long be­fore his par­ents would let me shrink it!”

Har­ry and the Weasleys roared with laugh­ter again.

“It isn't fun­ny!” Mr. Weasley shout­ed. "That sort of be­hav­ior se­ri­ous­ly un­der­mines wiz­ard-​Mug­gle re­la­tions! I spend half my life cam­paign­ing against the mis­treat­ment of Mug­gles, and my own sons

“We didn't give it to him be­cause he's a Mug­gle!” said Fred in­dig­nant­ly.

“No, we gave it to him be­cause he's a great bul­ly­ing git,” said George. “Isn't he, Har­ry?”

“Yeah, he is, Mr. Weasley,” said Har­ry earnest­ly.

“That's not the point!” raged Mr. Weasley. “You wait un­til I tell your moth­er -”

“Tell me what?” said a voice be­hind them.

Mrs. Weasley had just en­tered the kitchen. She was a short, plump wom­an with a very kind face, though her eyes were present­ly nar­rowed with sus­pi­cion.

“Oh hel­lo, Har­ry, dear,” she said, spot­ting him and smil­ing. Then her eyes snapped back to her hus­band. “Tell me what, Arthur?”

Mr. Weasley hes­itat­ed. Har­ry could tell that, how­ev­er an­gry he was with Fred and George, he hadn't re­al­ly in­tend­ed to tell Mrs. Weasley what had hap­pened. There was a si­lence, while Mr. Weasley eyed his wife ner­vous­ly. Then two girls ap­peared in the kitchen door­way be­hind Mrs. Weasley. One, with very bushy brown hair and rather large front teeth, was Har­ry's and Ron's friend, Hermione Granger. The oth­er, who was small and red-​haired, was Ron's younger sis­ter, Gin­ny. Both of them smiled at Har­ry, who grinned back, which made Gin­ny go scar­let - she had been very tak­en with Har­ry ev­er since his first vis­it to the Bur­row.

“Tell me what, Arthur?” Mrs. Weasley re­peat­ed, in a dan­ger­ous sort of voice.

“It's noth­ing, Mol­ly,” mum­bled Mr. Weasley, “Fred and George just - but I've had words with them -”

“What have they done this time?” said Mrs. Weasley. “If it's got any­thing to do with Weasleys' Wiz­ard Wheezes -”

“Why don't you show Har­ry where he's sleep­ing, Ron?” said Hermione from the door­way.

“He knows where he's sleep­ing,” said Ron, “in my room, he slept there last -”

“We can all go,” said Hermione point­ed­ly.

“Oh,” said Ron, cot­ton­ing on. “Right.”

“Yeah, we'll come too,” said George.

“You stay where you are!” snarled Mrs. Weasley.

Har­ry and Ron edged out of the kitchen, and they, Hermione, and Gin­ny set off along the nar­row hall­way and up the rick­ety stair­case that zigzagged through the house to the up­per sto­ries.

“What are Weasleys' Wiz­ard Wheezes?” Har­ry asked as they climbed.

Ron and Gin­ny both laughed, al­though Hermione didn't.

“Mum found this stack of or­der forms when she was clean­ing Fred and George's room,” said Ron qui­et­ly. “Great long price lists for stuff they've in­vent­ed. Joke stuff, you know. Fake wands and trick sweets, loads of stuff. It was bril­liant, I nev­er knew they'd been in­vent­ing all that…”

“We've been hear­ing ex­plo­sions out of their room for ages, but we nev­er thought they were ac­tu­al­ly mak­ing things,” said Gin­ny. “We thought they just liked the noise.”

“On­ly, most of the stuff - well, all of it, re­al­ly - was a bit dan­ger­ous,” said Ron, “and, you know, they were plan­ning to sell it at Hog­warts to make some mon­ey, and Mum went mad at them. Told them they weren't al­lowed to make any more of it, and burned all the or­der forms….She's fu­ri­ous at them any­way. They didn't get as many O.W.L.s as she ex­pect­ed.”

O.W.L.s were Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­els, the ex­am­ina­tions Hog­warts stu­dents took at the age of fif­teen.

“And then there was this big row,” Gin­ny said, “be­cause Mum wants them to go in­to the Min­istry of Mag­ic like Dad, and they told her all they want to do is open a joke shop.”

Just then a door on the sec­ond land­ing opened, and a face poked out wear­ing horn-​rimmed glass­es and a very an­noyed ex­pres­sion.

“Hi, Per­cy,” said Har­ry.

“Oh hel­lo, Har­ry,” said Per­cy. “I was won­der­ing who was mak­ing all the noise. I'm try­ing to work in here, you know I've got a re­port to fin­ish for the of­fice - and it's rather dif­fi­cult to con­cen­trate when peo­ple keep thun­der­ing up and down the stairs.”

“We're not thun­der­ing, ”said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly. “We're walk­ing. Sor­ry if we've dis­turbed the top-​se­cret work­ings of the Min­istry of Mag­ic.”

“What are you work­ing on?” said Har­ry.

“A re­port for the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation,” said Per­cy smug­ly. “We're try­ing to stan­dard­ize caul­dron thick­ness. Some of these for­eign im­ports are just a shade too thin - leak­ages have been in­creas­ing at a rate of al­most three per­cent a year -”

“That'll change the world, that re­port will,” said Ron. “Front page of the Dai­ly Prophet, I ex­pect, caul­dron leaks.”

Per­cy went slight­ly pink.

“You might sneer, Ron,” he said heat­ed­ly, “but un­less some sort of in­ter­na­tion­al law is im­posed we might well find the mar­ket flood­ed with flim­sy, shal­low-​bot­tomed prod­ucts that se­ri­ous­ly en­dan­ger -”

“Yeah, yeah, all right,” said Ron, and he start­ed off up­stairs again. Per­cy slammed his bed­room door shut. As Har­ry, Hermione, and Gin­ny fol­lowed Ron up three more flights of stairs, shouts from the kitchen be­low echoed up to them. It sound­ed as though Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. Weasley about the tof­fees.

The room at the top of the house where Ron slept looked much as it had the last time that Har­ry had come to stay: the same posters of Ron's fa­vorite Quid­ditch team, the Chud­ley Can­nons, were whirling and wav­ing on the walls and slop­ing ceil­ing, and the fish tank on the win­dowsill, which had pre­vi­ous­ly held frog spawn, now con­tained one ex­treme­ly large frog. Ron's old rat, Scab­bers, was here no more, but in­stead there was the tiny gray owl that had de­liv­ered Ron's let­ter to Har­ry in Priv­et Drive. It was hop­ping up and down in a small cage and twit­ter­ing mad­ly.

“Shut up, Pig,” said Ron, edg­ing his way be­tween two of the four beds that had been squeezed in­to the room. “Fred and George are in here with us, be­cause Bill and Char­lie are in their room,” he told Har­ry. “Per­cy gets to keep his room all to him­self be­cause he's got to work.”

“Er - why are you call­ing that owl Pig?” Har­ry asked Ron.

“Be­cause he's be­ing stupid,” said Gin­ny, “Its prop­er name is Pig­wid­geon.”

“Yeah, and that's not a stupid name at all,” said Ron sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “Gin­ny named him,” he ex­plained to Har­ry. "She reck­ons it's sweet. And I tried to change it, but it was too late, he won't an­swer to any­thing else. So now he's Pig. I've got to keep him up here be­cause he an­noys Er­rol and Her­mes. He an­noys me too, come to that.

Pig­wid­geon zoomed hap­pi­ly around his cage, hoot­ing shril­ly. Har­ry knew Ron too well to take him se­ri­ous­ly. He had moaned con­tin­ual­ly about his old rat, Scab­bers, but had been most up­set when Hermione's cat, Crook­shanks, ap­peared to have eat­en him.

“Where's Crook­shanks?” Har­ry asked Hermione now.

“Out in the gar­den, I ex­pect,” she said. “He likes chas­ing gnomes. He's nev­er seen any be­fore.”

“Per­cy's en­joy­ing work, then?” said Har­ry, sit­ting down on one of the beds and watch­ing the Chud­ley Can­nons zoom­ing in and out of the posters on the ceil­ing.

“En­joy­ing it?” said Ron dark­ly. “I don't reck­on he'd come home if Dad didn't make him. He's ob­sessed. Just don't get him on­to the sub­ject of his boss. Ac­cord­ing to Mr. Crouch…as I was say­ing to Mr. Crouch… Mr. Crouch is of the opin­ion…Mr. Crouch was telling me…They'll be an­nounc­ing their en­gage­ment any day now.”

“Have you had a good sum­mer, Har­ry?” said Hermione. “Did you get our food parcels and ev­ery­thing?”

“Yeah, thanks a lot,” said Har­ry. “They saved my life, those cakes.”

“And have you heard from -?” Ron be­gan, but at a look from Hermione he fell silent. Har­ry knew Ron had been about to ask about Sir­ius. Ron and Hermione had been so deeply in­volved in help­ing Sir­ius es­cape from the Min­istry of Mag­ic that they were al­most as con­cerned about Har­ry's god­fa­ther as he was. How­ev­er, dis­cussing him in front of Gin­ny was a bad idea. No­body but them­selves and Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore knew about how Sir­ius had es­caped, or be­lieved in his in­no­cence.

“I think they've stopped ar­gu­ing,” said Hermione, to cov­er the awk­ward mo­ment, be­cause Gin­ny was look­ing cu­ri­ous­ly from Ron to Har­ry. “Shall we go down and help your mum with din­ner?”

“Yeah, all right,” said Ron. The four of them left Ron's room and went back down­stairs to find Mrs. Weasley alone in the kitchen, look­ing ex­treme­ly bad-​tem­pered.

“We're eat­ing out in the gar­den,” she said when they came in. “There's just not room for eleven peo­ple in here. Could you take the plates out­side, girls? Bill and Char­lie are set­ting up the ta­bles. Knives and forks, please, you two,” she said to Ron and Har­ry, point­ing her wand a lit­tle more vig­or­ous­ly than she had in­tend­ed at a pile of pota­toes in the sink, which shot out of their skins so fast that they ric­ocheted off the walls and ceil­ing.

“Oh for heav­en's sake,” she snapped, now di­rect­ing her wand at a dust­pan, which hopped off the side­board and start­ed skat­ing across the floor, scoop­ing up the pota­toes. “Those two!” she burst out sav­age­ly, now pulling pots and pans out of a cup­board, and Har­ry knew she meant Fred and George. I don't know what's go­ing to hap­pen to them, I re­al­ly don't. No am­bi­tion, un­less you count mak­ing as much trou­ble as they pos­si­bly can…."

Mrs. Weasley slammed a large cop­per saucepan down on the kitchen ta­ble and be­gan to wave her wand around in­side it. A creamy sauce poured from the wand tip as she stirred.

“It's not as though they haven't got brains, she con­tin­ued ir­ri­ta­bly, tak­ing the saucepan over to the stove and light­ing it with a fur­ther poke of her wand, ”but they're wast­ing them, and un­less they pull them­selves to­geth­er soon, they'll be in re­al trou­ble. I've had more owls from Hog­warts about them than the rest put to­geth­er. If they car­ry on the way they're go­ing, they'll end up in front of the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice."

Mrs. Weasley jabbed her wand at the cut­lery draw­er, which shot open. Har­ry and Ron both jumped out of the way as sev­er­al knives soared out of it, flew across the kitchen, and be­gan chop­ping the pota­toes, which had just been tipped back in­to the sink by the dust­pan.

“I don't know where we went wrong with them,” said Mrs. Weasley, putting down her wand and start­ing to pull out still more saucepans. “It's been the same for years, one thing af­ter an­oth­er, and they won't lis­ten to - OH NOT AGAIN!”

She had picked up her wand from the ta­ble, and it had emit­ted a loud squeak and turned in­to a gi­ant rub­ber mouse.

“One of their fake wands again!” she shout­ed. “How many times have I told them not to leave them ly­ing around?”

She grabbed her re­al wand and turned around to find that the sauce on the stove was smok­ing.

“C'mon,” Ron said hur­ried­ly to Har­ry, seiz­ing a hand­ful of cut­lery from the open draw­er, “let's go and help Bill and Char­lie.”

They left Mrs. Weasley and head­ed out the back door in­to the yard.

They had on­ly gone a few paces when Hermione's bandy-​legged gin­ger cat, Crook­shanks, came pelt­ing out of the gar­den, bot­tle-​brush tail held high in the air, chas­ing what looked like a mud­dy pota­to on legs. Har­ry rec­og­nized it in­stant­ly as a gnome. Bare­ly ten inch­es high, its horny lit­tle feet pat­tered very fast as it sprint­ed across the yard and dived head­long in­to one of the Welling­ton boots that lay scat­tered around the door. Har­ry could hear the gnome gig­gling mad­ly as Crook­shanks in­sert­ed a paw in­to the boot, try­ing to reach it. Mean­while, a very loud crash­ing noise was com­ing from the oth­er side of the house. The source of the com­mo­tion was re­vealed as they en­tered the gar­den, and saw that Bill and Char­lie both had their wands out, and were mak­ing two bat­tered old ta­bles fly high above the lawn, smash­ing in­to each oth­er, each at­tempt­ing to knock the oth­er's out of the air. Fred and George were cheer­ing, Gin­ny was laugh­ing, and Hermione was hov­er­ing near the hedge, ap­par­ent­ly torn be­tween amuse­ment and anx­iety.

Bill's ta­ble caught Char­lie's with a huge bang and knocked one of its legs off. There was a clat­ter from over­head, and they all looked up to see Per­cy's head pok­ing out of a win­dow on the sec­ond floor.

“Will you keep it down?!” he bel­lowed.

“Sor­ry, Perce,” said Bill, grin­ning. “How're the caul­dron bot­toms com­ing on?”

“Very bad­ly,” said Per­cy pee­vish­ly, and he slammed the win­dow shut. Chuck­ling, Bill and Char­lie di­rect­ed the ta­bles safe­ly on­to the grass, end to end, and then, with a flick of his wand, Bill reat­tached the ta­ble leg and con­jured table­cloths from nowhere.

By sev­en o'clock, the two ta­bles were groan­ing un­der dish­es and dish­es of Mrs. Weasley's ex­cel­lent cook­ing, and the nine Weasleys, Har­ry, and Hermione were set­tling them­selves down to eat be­neath a clear, deep-​blue sky. To some­body who had been liv­ing on meals of in­creas­ing­ly stale cake all sum­mer, this was par­adise, and at first, Har­ry lis­tened rather than talked as he helped him­self to chick­en and ham pie, boiled pota­toes, and sal­ad.

At the far end of the ta­ble, Per­cy was telling his fa­ther all about his re­port on caul­dron bot­toms.

“I've told Mr. Crouch that I'll have it ready by Tues­day,” Per­cy was say­ing pompous­ly. “That's a bit soon­er than he ex­pect­ed it, but I like to keep on top of things. I think he'll be grate­ful I've done it in good time, I mean, its ex­treme­ly busy in our de­part­ment just now, what with all the ar­range­ments for the World Cup. We're just not get­ting the sup­port we need from the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Games and Sports. Lu­do Bag­man -”

“I like Lu­do,” said Mr. Weasley mild­ly. “He was the one who got us such good tick­ets for the Cup. I did him a bit of a fa­vor: His broth­er, Ot­to, got in­to a spot of trou­ble - a lawn­mow­er with un­nat­ural pow­ers - I smoothed the whole thing over.”

“Oh Bag­man's lik­able enough, of course,” said Per­cy dis­mis­sive­ly, “but how he ev­er got to be Head of De­part­ment…when I com­pare him to Mr. Crouch! I can't see Mr. Crouch los­ing a mem­ber of our de­part­ment and not try­ing to find out what's hap­pened to them. You re­al­ize Bertha Jorkins has been miss­ing for over a month now? Went on hol­iday to Al­ba­nia and nev­er came back?”

“Yes, I was ask­ing Lu­do about that,” said Mr. Weasley, frown­ing. “He says Bertha's got­ten lost plen­ty of times be­fore now - though must say, if it was some­one in my de­part­ment, I'd be wor­ried.…”

“Oh Bertha's hope­less, all right,” said Per­cy. “I hear she's been shunt­ed from de­part­ment to de­part­ment for years, much more trou­ble than she's worth…but all the same, Bag­man ought to be try­ing to find her. Mr. Crouch has been tak­ing a per­son­al in­ter­est, she worked in our de­part­ment at one time, you know, and I think Mr. Crouch was quite fond of her - but Bag­man just keeps laugh­ing and say­ing she prob­ably mis­read the map and end­ed up in Aus­tralia in­stead of Al­ba­nia. How­ev­er” - Per­cy heaved an im­pres­sive sigh and took a deep swig of el­der­flow­er wine - “we've got quite enough on our plates at the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation with­out try­ing to find mem­bers of oth­er de­part­ments too. As you know, we've got an­oth­er big event to or­ga­nize right af­ter the World Cup.”

Per­cy cleared his throat sig­nif­icant­ly and looked down to­ward the end of the ta­ble where Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were sit­ting. “You know the one I'm talk­ing about, Fa­ther.” He raised his voice slight­ly. “The top-​se­cret one.”

Ron rolled his eyes and mut­tered to Har­ry and Hermione, “He's been try­ing to get us to ask what that event is ev­er since he start­ed work. Prob­ably an ex­hi­bi­tion of thick-​bot­tomed caul­drons.”

In the mid­dle of the ta­ble, Mrs. Weasley was ar­gu­ing with Bill about his ear­ring, which seemed to be a re­cent ac­qui­si­tion.

“…with a hor­ri­ble great fang on it. Re­al­ly, Bill, what do they say at the bank?”

“Mum, no one at the bank gives a damn how I dress as long as I bring home plen­ty of trea­sure,” said Bill pa­tient­ly.

“And your hair's get­ting sil­ly, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, fin­ger­ing her wand lov­ing­ly.“ I wish you'd let me give it a trim.…”

“I like it,” said Gin­ny, who was sit­ting be­side Bill. “You're so old-​fash­ioned, Mum. Any­way, it's nowhere near as long as Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore's….”

Next to Mrs. Weasley, Fred, George, and Char­lie were all talk­ing spirit­ed­ly about the World Cup.

“It's got to be Ire­land,” said Char­lie thick­ly, through a mouth­ful of pota­to. “They flat­tened Pe­ru in the semi­fi­nals.”

“Bul­gar­ia has got Vik­tor Krum, though,” said Fred.

“Krum's one de­cent play­er, Ire­land has got sev­en,” said Char­lie short­ly. “I wish Eng­land had got through. That was em­bar­rass­ing, that was.”

“What hap­pened?” said Har­ry ea­ger­ly, re­gret­ting more than ev­er his iso­la­tion from the wiz­ard­ing world when he was stuck on Priv­et Drive.

“Went down to Tran­syl­va­nia, three hun­dred and nine­ty to ten,” said Char­lie gloomi­ly. “Shock­ing per­for­mance. And Wales lost to Ugan­da, and Scot­land was slaugh­tered by Lux­em­bourg.”

Har­ry had been on the Gryffind­or House Quid­ditch team ev­er since his first year at Hog­warts and owned one of the best rac­ing brooms in the world, a Fire­bolt. Fly­ing came more nat­ural­ly to Har­ry than any­thing else in the mag­ical world, and he played in the po­si­tion of Seek­er on the Gryffind­or House team.

Mr. Weasley con­jured up can­dles to light the dark­en­ing gar­den be­fore they had their home­made straw­ber­ry ice cream, and by the time they had fin­ished, moths were flut­ter­ing low over the ta­ble, and the warm air was per­fumed with the smells of grass and hon­ey­suck­le. Har­ry was feel­ing ex­treme­ly well fed and at peace with the world as he watched sev­er­al gnomes sprint­ing through the rose­bush­es, laugh­ing mad­ly and close­ly pur­sued by Crook­shanks.

Ron looked care­ful­ly up the ta­ble to check that the rest of the fam­ily were all busy talk­ing, then he said very qui­et­ly to Har­ry, “So - have you heard from Sir­ius late­ly?”

Hermione looked around, lis­ten­ing close­ly.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry soft­ly, “twice. He sounds okay. I wrote to him yes­ter­day. He might write back while I'm here.”

He sud­den­ly re­mem­bered the rea­son he had writ­ten to Sir­ius, and for a mo­ment was on the verge of telling Ron and Hermione about his scar hurt­ing again, and about the dream that had awo­ken him…but he re­al­ly didn't want to wor­ry them just now, not when he him­self was feel­ing so hap­py and peace­ful.

“Look at the time,” Mrs. Weasley said sud­den­ly, check­ing her wrist­watch. “You re­al­ly should be in bed, the whole lot of you you'll be up at the crack of dawn to get to the Cup. Har­ry, if you leave your school list out, I'll get your things for you to­mor­row in Di­agon Al­ley. I'm get­ting ev­ery­one else's. There might not be time af­ter the World Cup, the match went on for five days last time.”

“Wow - hope it does this time!” said Har­ry en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

“Well, I cer­tain­ly don't,” said Per­cy sanc­ti­mo­nious­ly. “I shud­der to think what the state of my in-​tray would be if I was away from work for five days.”

“Yeah, some­one might slip drag­on dung in it again, eh, Perce?” said Fred.

“That was a sam­ple of fer­til­iz­er from Nor­way!” said Per­cy, go­ing very red in the face. “It was noth­ing per­son­al!”

“It was,” Fred whis­pered to Har­ry as they got up from the ta­ble. “We sent it.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER SIX


THE PORTKEY



H ar­ry felt as though he had bare­ly lain down to steep in Ron's room when he was be­ing shak­en awake by Mrs. Weasley.

“Time to go, Har­ry, dear,” she whis­pered, mov­ing away to wake Ron.

Har­ry felt around for his glass­es, put them on, and sat up. It was still dark out­side. Ron mut­tered in­dis­tinct­ly as his moth­er roused him. At the foot of Har­ry's mat­tress he saw two large, di­sheveled shapes emerg­ing from tan­gles of blan­kets.

“'S time al­ready?” said Fred grog­gi­ly.

They dressed in si­lence, too sleepy to talk, then, yawn­ing and stretch­ing, the four of them head­ed down­stairs in­to the kitchen.

Mrs. Weasley was stir­ring the con­tents of a large pot on the stove, while Mr. Weasley was sit­ting at the ta­ble, check­ing a sheaf of large parch­ment tick­ets. He looked up as the boys en­tered and spread his arms so that they could see his clothes more clear­ly. He was wear­ing what ap­peared to be a golf­ing sweater and a very old pair of jeans, slight­ly too big for him and held up with a thick leather belt.

“What d'you think?” he asked anx­ious­ly. “We're sup­posed to go incog­ni­to - do I look like a Mug­gle, Har­ry?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, smil­ing, “very good.”

“Where're Bill and Char­lie and Per-​Per-​Per­cy?” said George, fail­ing to sti­fle a huge yawn.

“Well, they're Ap­pa­rat­ing, aren't they?” said Mrs. Weasley, heav­ing the large pot over to the ta­ble and start­ing to la­dle por­ridge in­to bowls. “So they can have a bit of a lie-​in.”

Har­ry knew that Ap­pa­rat­ing meant dis­ap­pear­ing from one place and reap­pear­ing al­most in­stant­ly in an­oth­er, but had nev­er known any Hog­warts stu­dent to do it, and un­der­stood that it was very dif­fi­cult.

“So they're still in bed?” said Fred grumpi­ly, pulling his bowl of por­ridge to­ward him. “Why can't we Ap­pa­rate too?”

“Be­cause you're not of age and you haven't passed your test,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “And where have those girls got to?”

She bus­tled out of the kitchen and they heard her climb­ing the stairs.

“You have to pass a test to Ap­pa­rate?” Har­ry asked.

“Oh yes,” said Mr. Weasley, tuck­ing the tick­ets safe­ly in­to the back pock­et of his jeans. “The De­part­ment of Mag­ical Trans­porta­tion had to fine a cou­ple of peo­ple the oth­er day for Ap­pa­rat­ing with­out a li­cense. It's not easy, Ap­pari­tion, and when it's not done prop­er­ty it can lead to nasty com­pli­ca­tions. This pair I'm talk­ing about went and splinched them­selves.”

Ev­ery­one around the ta­ble ex­cept Har­ry winced.

“Er - splinched?” said Har­ry.

“They left half of them­selves be­hind,” said Mr. Weasley, now spoon­ing large amounts of trea­cle on­to his por­ridge. “So, of course, they were stuck. Couldn't move ei­ther way. Had to wait for the Ac­ci­den­tal Mag­ic Re­ver­sal Squad to sort them out. Meant a fair old bit of pa­per­work, I can tell you, what with the Mug­gles who spot­ted the body parts they'd left be­hind…..”

Har­ry had a sud­den vi­sion of a pair of legs and an eye­ball ly­ing aban­doned on the pave­ment of Priv­et Drive.

“Were they okay?” he asked, star­tled.

“Oh yes,” said Mr. Weasley mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly. “But they got a heavy fine, and I don't think they'll be try­ing it again in a hur­ry. You don't mess around with Ap­pari­tion. There are plen­ty of adult wiz­ards who don't both­er with it. Pre­fer brooms - slow­er, but safer.”

“But Bill and Char­lie and Per­cy can all do it?”

“Char­lie had to take the test twice,” said Fred, grin­ning. “He failed the first time. Ap­pa­rat­ed five miles south of where he meant to, right on top of some poor old dear do­ing her shop­ping, re­mem­ber?”

“Yes, well, he passed the sec­ond time,” said Mrs. Weasley, march­ing back in­to the kitchen amid hearty snig­gers.

“Per­cy on­ly passed two weeks ago,” said George. “He's been Ap­pa­rat­ing down­stairs ev­ery morn­ing since, just to prove he can.”

There were foot­steps down the pas­sage­way and Hermione and Gin­ny came in­to the kitchen, both look­ing pale and drowsy.

“Why do we have to be up so ear­ly?” Gin­ny said, rub­bing her eyes and sit­ting down at the ta­ble.

“We've got a bit of a walk,” said Mr. Weasley.

“Walk?” said Har­ry. “What, are we walk­ing to the World Cup?”

“No, no, that's miles away,” said Mr. Weasley, smil­ing. “We on­ly need to walk a short way. It's just that it's very dif­fi­cult for a large num­ber of wiz­ards to con­gre­gate with­out at­tract­ing Mug­gle at­ten­tion. We have to be very care­ful about how we trav­el at the best of times, and on a huge oc­ca­sion like the Quid­ditch World Cup…”

“George!” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, and they all jumped.

“What?” said George, in an in­no­cent tone that de­ceived no­body.

“What is that in your pock­et?”

“Noth­ing!”

“Don't you lie to me!”

Mrs. Weasley point­ed her wand at George's pock­et and said, “Ac­cio!”

Sev­er­al small, bright­ly col­ored ob­jects zoomed out of George's pock­et; he made a grab for them but missed, and they sped right in­to Mrs. Weasley's out­stretched hand.

“We told you to de­stroy them!” said Mrs. Weasley fu­ri­ous­ly, hold­ing up what were un­mis­tak­ably more Ton-​Tongue Tof­fees. “We told you to get rid of the lot! Emp­ty your pock­ets, go on, both of you!”

It was an un­pleas­ant scene; the twins had ev­ident­ly been try­ing to smug­gle as many tof­fees out of the house as pos­si­ble, and it was on­ly by us­ing her Sum­mon­ing Charm that Mrs. Weasley man­aged to find them all.

“Ac­cio! Ac­cio! Ac­cio!” she shout­ed, and tof­fees zoomed from all sorts of un­like­ly places, in­clud­ing the lin­ing of George's jack­et and the turn-​ups of Fred's jeans.

“We spent six months de­vel­op­ing those!” Fred shout­ed at his moth­er as she threw the tof­fees away.

“Oh a fine way to spend six months!” she shrieked. “No won­der you didn't get more O.W.L.s!”

All in all, the at­mo­sphere was not very friend­ly as they took their de­par­ture. Mrs. Weasley was still glow­er­ing as she kissed Mr. Weasley on the cheek, though not near­ly as much as the twins, who had each hoist­ed their ruck­sacks on­to their backs and walked out with­out a word to her.

“Well, have a love­ly time,” said Mrs. Weasley, “and be­have your­selves,” she called af­ter the twins' re­treat­ing backs, but they did not look back or an­swer. “I'll send Bill, Char­lie, and Per­cy along around mid­day,” Mrs. Weasley said to Mr. Weasley, as he, Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny set off across the dark yard af­ter Fred and George.

It was chilly and the moon was still out. On­ly a dull, green­ish tinge along the hori­zon to their right showed that day­break was draw­ing clos­er. Har­ry, hav­ing been think­ing about thou­sands of wiz­ards speed­ing to­ward the Quid­ditch World Cup, sped up to walk with Mr. Weasley.

“So how does ev­ery­one get there with­out all the Mug­gles notic­ing?” he asked.

“It's been a mas­sive or­ga­ni­za­tion­al prob­lem,” sighed Mr. Weasley. “The trou­ble is, about a hun­dred thou­sand wiz­ards turn up at the World Cup, and of course, we just haven't got a mag­ical site big enough to ac­com­mo­date them all. There are places Mug­gles can't pen­etrate, but imag­ine try­ing to pack a hun­dred thou­sand wiz­ards in­to Di­agon Al­ley or plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters. So we had to find a nice de­sert­ed moor, and set up as many an­ti-​Mug­gle pre­cau­tions as pos­si­ble. The whole Min­istry's been work­ing on it for months. First, of course, we have to stag­ger the ar­rivals. Peo­ple with cheap­er tick­ets have to ar­rive two weeks be­fore­hand. A lim­it­ed num­ber use Mug­gle trans­port, but we can't have too many clog­ging up their bus­es and trains - re­mem­ber, wiz­ards are com­ing from all over the world. Some Ap­pa­rate, of course, but we have to set up safe points for them to ap­pear, well away from Mug­gles. I be­lieve there's a handy wood they're us­ing as the Ap­pari­tion point. For those who don't want to Ap­pa­rate, or can't, we use Portkeys. They're ob­jects that are used to trans­port wiz­ards from one spot to an­oth­er at a pre­ar­ranged time. You can do large groups at a time if you need to. There have been two hun­dred Portkeys placed at strate­gic points around Britain, and the near­est one to us is up at the top of Stoat­shead Hill, so that's where we're head­ed.”

Mr. Weasley point­ed ahead of them, where a large black mass rose be­yond the vil­lage of Ot­tery St. Catch­pole.

“What sort of ob­jects are Portkeys?” said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly.

“Well, they can be any­thing,” said Mr. Weasley. “Un­ob­tru­sive things, ob­vi­ous­ly, so Mug­gles don't go pick­ing them up and play­ing with them…stuff they'll just think is lit­ter….”

They trudged down the dark, dank lane to­ward the vil­lage, the si­lence bro­ken on­ly by their foot­steps. The sky light­ened very slow­ly as they made their way through the vil­lage, its inky black­ness di­lut­ing to deep­est blue. Har­ry's hands and feet were freez­ing. Mr. Weasley kept check­ing his watch.

They didn't have breath to spare for talk­ing as they be­gan to climb Stoat­shead Hill, stum­bling oc­ca­sion­al­ly in hid­den rab­bit holes, slip­ping on thick black tuffets of grass. Each breath Har­ry took was sharp in his chest and his legs were start­ing to seize up when, at last, his feet found lev­el ground.

“Whew,” pant­ed Mr. Weasley, tak­ing off his glass­es and wip­ing them on his sweater. “Well, we've made good time - we've got ten min­utes.”

Hermione came over the crest of the hill last, clutch­ing a stitch in her side.

“Now we just need the Portkey,” said Mr. Weasley, re­plac­ing his glass­es and squint­ing around at the ground. “It won't be big….Come on…”

They spread out, search­ing. They had on­ly been at it for a cou­ple of min­utes, how­ev­er, when a shout rent the still air.

“Over here, Arthur! Over here, son, we've got it.”

Two tall fig­ures were sil­hou­et­ted against the star­ry sky on the oth­er side of the hill­top.

“Amos!” said Mr. Weasley, smil­ing as he strode over to the man who had shout­ed. The rest of them fol­lowed.

Mr. Weasley was shak­ing hands with a rud­dy-​faced wiz­ard with a scrub­by brown beard, who was hold­ing a moldy-​look­ing old boot in his oth­er hand.

“This is Amos Dig­gory, ev­ery­one,” said Mr. Weasley. “He works for the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures. And I think you know his son, Cedric?”

Cedric Dig­gory was an ex­treme­ly hand­some boy of around sev­en­teen. He was Cap­tain and Seek­er of the Huf­flepuff House Quid­ditch team at Hog­warts.

“Hi,” said Cedric, look­ing around at them all.

Ev­ery­body said hi back ex­cept Fred and George, who mere­ly nod­ded. They had nev­er quite for­giv­en Cedric for beat­ing their team, Gryffind­or, in the first Quid­ditch match of the pre­vi­ous year.

“Long walk, Arthur?” Cedric's fa­ther asked. “Not too bad,” said Mr. Weasley. “We live just on the oth­er side of the vil­lage there. You?”

“Had to get up at two, didn't we, Ced? I tell you, I'll be glad when he's got his Ap­pari­tion test. Still…not com­plain­ing…Quid­ditch World Cup, wouldn't miss it for a sack­ful of Galleons - and the tick­ets cost about that. Mind you, looks like I got off easy.…” Amos Dig­gory peered good-​na­tured­ly around at the three Weasley boys, Har­ry, Hermione, and Gin­ny. “All these yours, Arthur?”

“Oh no, on­ly the red­heads,” said Mr. Weasley, point­ing out his chil­dren. “This is Hermione, friend of Ron's - and Har­ry, an­oth­er friend -”

“Mer­lin's beard,” said Amos Dig­gory, his eyes widen­ing. “Har­ry? Har­ry Pot­ter?”

“Er - yeah,” said Har­ry.

Har­ry was used to peo­ple look­ing cu­ri­ous­ly at him when they met him, used to the way their eyes moved at once to the light­ning scar on his fore­head, but it al­ways made him feel un­com­fort­able.

“Ced's talked about you, of course,” said Amos Dig­gory. “Told us all about play­ing against you last year…I said to him, I said - Ced, that'll be some­thing to tell your grand­chil­dren, that will….You beat Har­ry Pot­ter!”

Har­ry couldn't think of any re­ply to this, so he re­mained silent. Fred and George were both scowl­ing again. Cedric looked slight­ly em­bar­rassed.

“Har­ry fell off his broom, Dad,” he mut­tered. I told you…it was an ac­ci­dent…."

“Yes, but you didn't fall off, did you?” roared Amos ge­nial­ly, slap­ping his son on his back. “Al­ways mod­est, our Ced, al­ways the gen­tle­man…but the best man won, I'm sure Har­ry'd say the same, wouldn't you, eh? One falls off his broom, one stays on, you don't need to be a ge­nius to tell which one's the bet­ter fli­er!”

“Must be near­ly time,” said Mr. Weasley quick­ly, pulling out his watch again. “Do you know whether we're wait­ing for any more, Amos?”

“No, the Love­goods have been there for a week al­ready and the Fawcetts couldn't get tick­ets,” said Mr. Dig­gory. “There aren't any more of us in this area, are there?”

“Not that I know of,” said Mr. Weasley. “Yes, it's a minute off…We'd bet­ter get ready….”

He looked around at Har­ry and Hermione.

“You just need to touch the Portkey, that's all, a fin­ger will do -”

With dif­fi­cul­ty, ow­ing to their bulky back­packs, the nine of them crowd­ed around the old boot held out by Amos Dig­gory.

They all stood there, in a tight cir­cle, as a chill breeze swept over the hill­top. No­body spoke. It sud­den­ly oc­curred to Har­ry how odd this would look if a Mug­gle were to walk up here now…nine peo­ple, two of them grown men, clutch­ing this manky old boot in the semi­dark­ness, wait­ing….

“Three…” mut­tered Mr. Weasley, one eye still on his watch, two…one…"

It hap­pened im­me­di­ate­ly: Har­ry felt as though a hook just be­hind his navel had been sud­den­ly jerked ir­re­sistibly for­ward. His feet left the ground; he could feel Ron and Hermione on ei­ther side of him, their shoul­ders bang­ing in­to his; they were all speed­ing for­ward in a howl of wind and swirling col­or; his fore­fin­ger was stuck to the boot as though it was pulling him mag­net­ical­ly on­ward and then -

His feet slammed in­to the ground; Ron stag­gered in­to him and he fell over; the Portkey hit the ground near his head with a heavy thud.

Har­ry looked up. Mr. Weasley, Mr. Dig­gory, and Cedric were still stand­ing, though look­ing very windswept; ev­ery­body else was on the ground.

“Sev­en past five from Stoat­shead Hill,” said a voice.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER SEVEN


BAG­MAN AND CROUCH



H ar­ry dis­en­tan­gled him­self from Ron and got to his feet. They had ar­rived on what ap­peared to be a de­sert­ed stretch of misty moor. In front of them was a pair of tired and grumpy-​look­ing wiz­ards, one of whom was hold­ing a large gold watch, the oth­er a thick roll of parch­ment and a quill. Both were dressed as Mug­gles, though very in­ex­pert­ly: The man with the watch wore a tweed suit with thigh-​length ga­losh­es; his col­league, a kilt and a pon­cho.

“Morn­ing, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley, pick­ing up the boot and hand­ing it to the kilt­ed wiz­ard, who threw it in­to a large box of used Portkeys be­side him; Har­ry could see an old news­pa­per, an emp­ty drinks can, and a punc­tured foot­ball.

“Hel­lo there, Arthur,” said Basil weari­ly. “Not on du­ty, eh? It's all right for some….We've been here all night….You'd bet­ter get out of the way, we've got a big par­ty com­ing in from the Black For­est at five fif­teen. Hang on, I'll find your camp­site….Weasley…Weasley….” He con­sult­ed his parch­ment list. “About a quar­ter of a mile's walk over there, first field you come to. Site man­ag­er's called Mr. Roberts. Dig­gory…sec­ond field…ask for Mr. Payne.”

“Thanks, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley, and he beck­oned ev­ery­one to fol­low him.

They set off across the de­sert­ed moor, un­able to make out much through the mist. Af­ter about twen­ty min­utes, a small stone cot­tage next to a gate swam in­to view. Be­yond it, Har­ry could just make out the ghost­ly shapes of hun­dreds and hun­dreds of tents, ris­ing up the gen­tle slope of a large field to­ward a dark wood on the hori­zon. They said good-​bye to the Dig­gory's and ap­proached the cot­tage door.

A man was stand­ing in the door­way, look­ing out at the tents. Har­ry knew at a glance that this was the on­ly re­al Mug­gle for sev­er­al acres. When he heard their foot­steps, he turned his head to look at them.

“Morn­ing!” said Mr. Weasley bright­ly.

“Morn­ing,” said the Mug­gle.

“Would you be Mr. Roberts?”

“Aye, I would,” said Mr. Roberts. “And who're you?”

“Weasley - two tents, booked a cou­ple of days ago?”

“Aye,” said Mr. Roberts, con­sult­ing a list tacked to the door. “You've got a space up by the wood there. Just the one night?”

“That's it,” said Mr. Weasley.

“You'll be pay­ing now, then?” said Mr. Roberts.

“Ah - right - cer­tain­ly -” said Mr. Weasley. He re­treat­ed a short dis­tance from the cot­tage and beck­oned Har­ry to­ward him. “Help me, Har­ry,” he mut­tered, pulling a roll of Mug­gle mon­ey from his pock­et and start­ing to peel the notes apart. “This one's a - a - a ten? Ah yes, I see the lit­tle num­ber on it now…So this is a five?”

“A twen­ty,” Har­ry cor­rect­ed him in an un­der­tone, un­com­fort­ably aware of Mr. Roberts try­ing to catch ev­ery word.

“Ah yes, so it is….I don't know, these lit­tle bits of pa­per…”

“You for­eign?” said Mr. Roberts as Mr. Weasley re­turned with the cor­rect notes.

“For­eign?” re­peat­ed Mr. Weasley, puz­zled.

“You're not the first one who's had trou­ble with mon­ey,” said Mr. Roberts, scru­ti­niz­ing Mr. Weasley close­ly. “I had two try and pay me with great gold coins the size of hub­caps ten min­utes ago.”

“Did you re­al­ly?” said Mr. Weasley ner­vous­ly.

Mr. Roberts rum­maged around in a tin for some change.

“Nev­er been this crowd­ed,” he said sud­den­ly, look­ing out over the misty field again. “Hun­dreds of pre-​book­ings. Peo­ple usu­al­ly just turn up….”

“Is that right?” said Mr. Weasley, his hand held out for his change, but Mr. Roberts didn't give it to him.

“Aye,” he said thought­ful­ly. “Peo­ple from all over. Loads of for­eign­ers. And not just for­eign­ers. Weirdos, you know? There's a bloke walk­ing 'round in a kilt and a pon­cho.”

“Shouldn't he?” said Mr. Weasley anx­ious­ly.

“It's like some sort of…I dun­no…like some sort of ral­ly,” said Mr. Roberts. “They all seem to know each oth­er. Like a big par­ty.”

At that mo­ment, a wiz­ard in plus-​fours ap­peared out of thin air next to Mr. Roberts's front door.

“Oblivi­ate!” he said sharply, point­ing his wand at Mr. Roberts.

In­stant­ly, Mr. Roberts's eyes slid out of fo­cus, his brows un­knit­ted, and a took of dreamy un­con­cern fell over his face. Har­ry rec­og­nized the symp­toms of one who had just had his mem­ory mod­ified.

“A map of the camp­site for you,” Mr. Roberts said placid­ly to Mr. Weasley. “And your change.”

“Thanks very much,” said Mr. Weasley.

The wiz­ard in plus-​fours ac­com­pa­nied them to­ward the gate to the camp­site. He looked ex­haust­ed: His chin was blue with stub­ble and there were deep pur­ple shad­ows un­der his eyes. Once out of earshot of Mr. Roberts, he mut­tered to Mr. Weasley, “Been hav­ing a lot of trou­ble with him. Needs a Mem­ory Charm ten times a day to keep him hap­py. And Lu­do Bag­man's not help­ing. Trot­ting around talk­ing about Bludgers and Quaf­fles at the top of his voice, not a wor­ry about an­ti-​Mug­gle se­cu­ri­ty Blimey, I'll be glad when this is over. See you lat­er, Arthur.”

He Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.

“I thought Mr. Bag­man was Head of Mag­ical Games and Sports,” said Gin­ny, look­ing sur­prised. “He should know bet­ter than to talk about Bludgers near Mug­gles, shouldn't he?”

“He should,” said Mr. Weasley, smil­ing, and lead­ing them through the gates in­to the camp­site, “but Lu­do's al­ways been a bit…well…lax about se­cu­ri­ty. You couldn't wish for a more en­thu­si­as­tic head of the sports de­part­ment though. He played Quid­ditch for Eng­land him­self, you know. And he was the best Beat­er the Wim­bourne Wasps ev­er had.”

They trudged up the misty field be­tween long rows of tents. Most looked al­most or­di­nary; their own­ers had clear­ly tried to make them as Mug­gle-​like as pos­si­ble, but had slipped up by adding chim­neys, or bellpulls, or weath­er vanes. How­ev­er, here and there was a tent so ob­vi­ous­ly mag­ical that Har­ry could hard­ly be sur­prised that Mr. Roberts was get­ting sus­pi­cious. Halfway up the field stood an ex­trav­agant con­fec­tion of striped silk like a minia­ture palace, with sev­er­al live pea­cocks teth­ered at the en­trance. A lit­tle far­ther on they passed a tent that had three floors and sev­er­al tur­rets; and a short way be­yond that was a tent that had a front gar­den at­tached, com­plete with bird­bath, sun­di­al, and foun­tain.

“Al­ways the same,” said Mr. Weasley, smil­ing. “We can't re­sist show­ing off when we get to­geth­er. Ah, here we are, look, this is us.”

They had reached the very edge of the wood at the top of the field, and here was an emp­ty space, with a small sign ham­mered in­to the ground that read WEE­ZLY .

“Couldn't have a bet­ter spot!” said Mr. Weasley hap­pi­ly. “The field is just on the oth­er side of the wood there, we're as close as we could be.” He hoist­ed his back­pack from his shoul­ders. “Right,” he said ex­cit­ed­ly, “no mag­ic al­lowed, strict­ly speak­ing, not when we're out in these num­bers on Mug­gle land. We'll be putting these tents up by hand! Shouldn't be too dif­fi­cult….Mug­gles do it all the time….Here, Har­ry, where do you reck­on we should start?”

Har­ry had nev­er been camp­ing in his life; the Durs­leys had nev­er tak­en him on any kind of hol­iday, pre­fer­ring to leave him with Mrs. Figg, an old neigh­bor. How­ev­er, he and Hermione worked out where most of the poles and pegs should go, and though Mr. Weasley was more of a hin­drance than a help, be­cause he got thor­ough­ly overex­cit­ed when it came to us­ing the mal­let, they fi­nal­ly man­aged to erect a pair of shab­by two-​man tents.

All of them stood back to ad­mire their hand­iwork. No­body look­ing at these tents would guess they be­longed to wiz­ards, Har­ry thought, but the trou­ble was that once Bill, Char­lie, and Per­cy ar­rived, they would be a par­ty of ten. Hermione seemed to have spot­ted this prob­lem too; she gave Har­ry a quizzi­cal look as Mr. Weasley dropped to his hands and knees and en­tered the first tent.

“We'll be a bit cramped,” he called, “but I think we'll all squeeze in. Come and have a look.”

Har­ry bent down, ducked un­der the tent flap, and felt his jaw drop. He had walked in­to what looked like an old-​fash­ioned, three room flat, com­plete with bath­room and kitchen. Odd­ly enough, it was fur­nished in ex­act­ly the same sort of style as Mrs. Figg's house: There were cro­cheted cov­ers on the mis­matched chairs and a strong smell of cats.

“Well, it's not for long,” said Mr. Weasley, mop­ping his bald patch with a hand­ker­chief and peer­ing in at the four bunk beds that stood in the bed­room. I bor­rowed this from Perkins at the of­fice. Doesn't camp much any­more, poor fel­low, he's got lum­ba­go."

He picked up the dusty ket­tle and peered in­side it. “We'll need wa­ter….”

“There's a tap marked on this map the Mug­gle gave us,” said Ron, who had fol­lowed Har­ry in­side the tent and seemed com­plete­ly unim­pressed by its ex­traor­di­nary in­ner pro­por­tions. “It's on the oth­er side of the field.”

“Well, why don't you, Har­ry, and Hermione go and get us some wa­ter then -” Mr. Weasley hand­ed over the ket­tle and a cou­ple of saucepans “- and the rest of us will get some wood for a fire?”

“But we've got an oven,” said Ron. “Why can't we just -”

“Ron, an­ti-​Mug­gle se­cu­ri­ty!” said Mr. Weasley, his face shin­ing with an­tic­ipa­tion. “When re­al Mug­gles camp, they cook on fires out­doors. I've seen them at it!”

Af­ter a quick tour of the girls' tent, which was slight­ly small­er than the boys', though with­out the smell of cats, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione set off across the camp­site with the ket­tle and saucepans.

Now, with the sun new­ly risen and the mist lift­ing, they could see the city of tents that stretched in ev­ery di­rec­tion. They made their way slow­ly through the rows, star­ing ea­ger­ly around. It was on­ly just dawn­ing on Har­ry how many witch­es and wiz­ards there must be in the world; he had nev­er re­al­ly thought much about those in oth­er coun­tries.

Their fel­low campers were start­ing to wake up. First to stir were the fam­ilies with small chil­dren; Har­ry had nev­er seen witch­es and wiz­ards this young be­fore. A tiny boy no old­er than two was crouched out­side a large pyra­mid-​shaped tent, hold­ing a wand and pok­ing hap­pi­ly at a slug in the grass, which was swelling slow­ly to the size of a sala­mi. As they drew lev­el with him, his moth­er came hur­ry­ing out of the tent.

“How many times, Kevin? You don't - touch - Dad­dy's - wand - yec­chh!”

She had trod­den on the gi­ant slug, which burst. Her scold­ing car­ried af­ter them on the still air, min­gling with the lit­tle boy's yells “You bust slug! You bust slug!”

A short way far­ther on, they saw two lit­tle witch­es, bare­ly old­er than Kevin, who were rid­ing toy broom­sticks that rose on­ly high enough for the girls' toes to skim the dewy grass. A Min­istry wiz­ard had al­ready spot­ted them; as he hur­ried past Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione he mut­tered dis­tract­ed­ly, “In broad day­light! Par­ents hav­ing a lie-​in, I sup­pose -”

Here and there adult wiz­ards and witch­es were emerg­ing from their tents and start­ing to cook break­fast. Some, with furtive looks around them, con­jured fires with their wands; oth­ers were strik­ing match­es with du­bi­ous looks on their faces, as though sure this couldn't work. Three African wiz­ards sat in se­ri­ous con­ver­sa­tion, all of them wear­ing long white robes and roast­ing what looked like a rab­bit on a bright pur­ple fire, while a group of mid­dle-​aged Amer­ican witch­es sat gos­sip­ing hap­pi­ly be­neath a span­gled ban­ner stretched be­tween their tents that read: THE SALEM WITCH­ES' IN­STI­TUTE . Har­ry caught snatch­es of con­ver­sa­tion in strange lan­guages from the in­side of tents they passed, and though he couldn't un­der­stand a word, the tone of ev­ery sin­gle voice was ex­cit­ed.

“Er - is it my eyes, or has ev­ery­thing gone green?” said Ron.

It wasn't just Ron's eyes. They had walked in­to a patch of tents that were all cov­ered with a thick growth of sham­rocks, so that it looked as though small, odd­ly shaped hillocks had sprout­ed out of the earth. Grin­ning faces could be seen un­der those that had their flaps open. Then, from be­hind them, they heard their names.

“Har­ry! Ron! Hermione!”

It was Sea­mus Finni­gan, their fel­low Gryffind­or fourth year. He was sit­ting in front of his own sham­rock-​cov­ered tent, with a sandy-​haired wom­an who had to be his moth­er, and his best friend, Dean Thomas, al­so of Gryffind­or.

“Like the dec­ora­tions?” said Sea­mus, grin­ning. “The Min­istry's not too hap­py.”

“Ah, why shouldn't we show our col­ors?” said Mrs. Finni­gan. “You should see what the Bul­gar­ians have got dan­gling all over their tents. You'll be sup­port­ing Ire­land, of course?” she added, eye­ing Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione bead­ily. When they had as­sured her that they were in­deed sup­port­ing Ire­land, they set off again, though, as Ron said, “Like we'd say any­thing else sur­round­ed by that lot.”

“I won­der what the Bul­gar­ians have got dan­gling all over their tents?” said Hermione.

“Let's go and have a look,” said Har­ry, point­ing to a large patch of tents up­field, where the Bul­gar­ian flag - white, green, and red - was flut­ter­ing in the breeze.

The tents here had not been be­decked with plant life, but each and ev­ery one of them had the same poster at­tached to it, a poster of a very surly face with heavy black eye­brows. The pic­ture was, of course, mov­ing, but all it did was blink and scowl.

“Krum,” said Ron qui­et­ly.

“What?” said Hermione.

“Krum!” said Ron. “Vik­tor Krum, the Bul­gar­ian Seek­er!”

“He looks re­al­ly grumpy,” said Hermione, look­ing around at the many Krum's blink­ing and scowl­ing at them.

“'Re­al­ly grumpy?” Ron raised his eyes to the heav­ens. “Who cares what he looks like? He's un­be­liev­able. He's re­al­ly young too. On­ly just eigh­teen or some­thing. He's a ge­nius, you wait un­til tonight, you'll see.”

There was al­ready a small queue for the tap in the cor­ner of the field. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione joined it, right be­hind a pair of men who were hav­ing a heat­ed ar­gu­ment. One of them was a very old wiz­ard who was wear­ing a long flow­ery night­gown. The oth­er was clear­ly a Min­istry wiz­ard; he was hold­ing out a pair of pin­striped trousers and al­most cry­ing with ex­as­per­ation.

“Just put them on, Archie, there's a good chap. You can't walk around like that, the Mug­gle at the gate's al­ready get­ting sus­pi­cious -”

“I bought this in a Mug­gle shop,” said the old wiz­ard stub­born­ly. “Mug­gles wear them.”

“Mug­gle wom­en wear them, Archie, not the men, they wear these,” said the Min­istry wiz­ard, and he bran­dished the pin­striped trousers.

“I'm not putting them on,” said old Archie in in­dig­na­tion. “I like a healthy breeze 'round my pri­vates, thanks.”

Hermione was over­come with such a strong fit of the gig­gles at this point that she had to duck out of the queue and on­ly re­turned when Archie had col­lect­ed his wa­ter and moved away.

Walk­ing more slow­ly now, be­cause of the weight of the wa­ter, they made their way back through the camp­site. Here and there, they saw more fa­mil­iar faces: oth­er Hog­warts stu­dents with their fam­ilies. Oliv­er Wood, the old cap­tain of Har­ry's House Quid­ditch team, who had just left Hog­warts, dragged Har­ry over to his par­ents' tent to in­tro­duce him, and told him ex­cit­ed­ly that he had just been signed to the Pud­dle­mere Unit­ed re­serve team. Next they were hailed by Ernie Macmil­lan, a Huf­flepuff fourth year, and a lit­tle far­ther on they saw Cho Chang, a very pret­ty girl who played Seek­er on the Raven­claw team. She waved and smiled at Har­ry, who slopped quite a lot of wa­ter down his front as he waved back. More to stop Ron from smirk­ing than any­thing, Har­ry hur­ried­ly point­ed out a large group of teenagers whom he had nev­er seen be­fore.

“Who d'you reck­on they are?” he said. “They don't go to Hog­warts, do they?”

“'Spect they go to some for­eign school,” said Ron. “I know there are oth­ers. Nev­er met any­one who went to one, though. Bill had a pen­friend at a school in Brazil…this was years and years ago…and he want­ed to go on an ex­change trip but Mum and Dad couldn't af­ford it. His pen­friend got all of­fend­ed when he said he wasn't go­ing and sent him a cursed hat. It made his ears shriv­el up.”

Har­ry laughed but didn't voice the amaze­ment he felt at hear­ing about oth­er wiz­ard­ing schools. He sup­posed, now that he saw rep­re­sen­ta­tives of so many na­tion­al­ities in the camp­site, that he had been stupid nev­er to re­al­ize that Hog­warts couldn't be the on­ly one. He glanced at Hermione, who looked ut­ter­ly un­sur­prised by the in­for­ma­tion. No doubt she had run across the news about oth­er wiz­ard­ing schools in some book or oth­er.

“You've been ages,” said George when they fi­nal­ly got back to the Weasleys' tents.

“Met a few peo­ple,” said Ron, set­ting the wa­ter down. “You've not got that fire start­ed yet?”

“Dad's hav­ing fun with the match­es,” said Fred.

Mr. Weasley was hav­ing no suc­cess at all in light­ing the fire, but it wasn't for lack of try­ing. Splin­tered match­es lit­tered the ground around him, but he looked as though he was hav­ing the time of his life.

“Oops!” he said as he man­aged to light a match and prompt­ly dropped it in sur­prise.

“Come here, Mr. Weasley,” said Hermione kind­ly, tak­ing the box from him, and show­ing him how to do it prop­er­ly.

At last they got the fire lit, though it was at least an­oth­er hour be­fore it was hot enough to cook any­thing. There was plen­ty to watch while they wait­ed, how­ev­er. Their tent seemed to be pitched right along­side a kind of thor­ough­fare to the field, and Min­istry mem­bers kept hur­ry­ing up and down it, greet­ing Mr. Weasley cor­dial­ly as they passed. Mr. Weasley kept up a run­ning com­men­tary, main­ly for Har­ry's and Hermione's ben­efit; his own chil­dren knew too much about the Min­istry to be great­ly in­ter­est­ed.

“That was Cuth­bert Mock­ridge, Head of the Gob­lin Li­ai­son Of­fice….Here comes Gilbert Wim­ple; he's with the Com­mit­tee on Ex­per­imen­tal Charms; he's had those horns for a while now…Hel­lo, Arnie…Arnold Pease­good, he's an Oblivi­ator - mem­ber of the Ac­ci­den­tal Mag­ic Re­ver­sal Squad, you know…and that's Bode and Croak­er…they're Un­speak­ables….”

“They're what?”

“From the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, top se­cret, no idea what they get up to….”

At last, the fire was ready, and they had just start­ed cook­ing eggs and sausages when Bill, Char­lie, and Per­cy came strolling out of the woods to­ward them.

“Just Ap­pa­rat­ed, Dad,” said Per­cy loud­ly. “Ah, ex­cel­lent, lunch!”

They were halfway through their plates of eggs and sausages when Mr. Weasley jumped to his feet, wav­ing and grin­ning at a man who was strid­ing to­ward them. “Aha!” he said. “The man of the mo­ment! Lu­do!”

Lu­do Bag­man was eas­ily the most no­tice­able per­son Har­ry had seen so far, even in­clud­ing old Archie in his flow­ered night­dress. He was wear­ing long Quid­ditch robes in thick hor­izon­tal stripes of bright yel­low and black. An enor­mous pic­ture of a wasp was splashed across his chest. He had the look of a pow­er­ful­ly built man gone slight­ly to seed; the robes were stretched tight­ly across a large bel­ly he sure­ly had not had in the days when he had played Quid­ditch for Eng­land. His nose was squashed (prob­ably bro­ken by a stray Bludger, Har­ry thought), but his round blue eyes, short blond hair, and rosy com­plex­ion made him look like a very over­grown school­boy.

“Ahoy there!” Bag­man called hap­pi­ly. He was walk­ing as though he had springs at­tached to the balls of his feet and was plain­ly in a state of wild ex­cite­ment.

“Arthur, old man,” he puffed as he reached the camp­fire, “what a day, eh? What a day! Could we have asked for more per­fect weath­er? A cloud­less night com­ing…and hard­ly a hic­cough in the ar­range­ments….Not much for me to do!”

Be­hind him, a group of hag­gard-​look­ing Min­istry wiz­ards rushed past, point­ing at the dis­tant ev­idence of some sort of a mag­ical fire that was send­ing vi­olet sparks twen­ty feet in­to the air.

Per­cy hur­ried for­ward with his hand out­stretched. Ap­par­ent­ly his dis­ap­proval of the way Lu­do Bag­man ran his de­part­ment did not pre­vent him from want­ing to make a good im­pres­sion.

“Ah - yes,” said Mr. Weasley, grin­ning, “this is my son Per­cy. He's just start­ed at the Min­istry - and this is Fred - no, George, sor­ry - that's Fred - Bill, Char­lie, Ron - my daugh­ter, Gin­ny and Ron's friends, Hermione Granger and Har­ry Pot­ter.”

Bag­man did the small­est of dou­ble takes when he heard Har­ry's name, and his eyes per­formed the fa­mil­iar flick up­ward to the scar on Har­ry's fore­head.

“Ev­ery­one,” Mr. Weasley con­tin­ued, “this is Lu­do Bag­man, you know who he is, it's thanks to him we've got such good tick­ets -”

Bag­man beamed and waved his hand as if to say it had been noth­ing.

“Fan­cy a flut­ter on the match, Arthur?” he said ea­ger­ly, jin­gling what seemed to be a large amount of gold in the pock­ets of his yel­low-​and-​black robes. “I've al­ready got Rod­dy Pont­ner bet­ting me Bul­gar­ia will score first - I of­fered him nice odds, con­sid­er­ing Ire­land's front three are the strongest I've seen in years - and lit­tle Agatha Timms has put up half shares in her eel farm on a week­long match.”

“Oh…go on then,” said Mr. Weasley. “Let's see…a Galleon on Ire­land to win?”

“A Galleon?” Lu­do Bag­man looked slight­ly dis­ap­point­ed, but re­cov­ered him­self. “Very well, very well…any oth­er tak­ers?”

“They're a bit young to be gam­bling,” said Mr. Weasley. “Mol­ly wouldn't like -”

“We'll bet thir­ty-​sev­en Galleons, fif­teen Sick­les, three Knuts,” said Fred as he and George quick­ly pooled all their mon­ey, “that Ire­land wins - but Vik­tor Krum gets the Snitch. Oh and we'll throw in a fake wand.”

“You don't want to go show­ing Mr. Bag­man rub­bish like that,” Per­cy hissed, but Bag­man didn't seem to think the wand was rub­bish at all; on the con­trary, his boy­ish face shone with ex­cite­ment as he took it from Fred, and when the wand gave a loud squawk and turned in­to a rub­ber chick­en, Bag­man roared with laugh­ter.

“Ex­cel­lent! I haven't seen one that con­vinc­ing in years! I'd pay five Galleons for that!”

Per­cy froze in an at­ti­tude of stunned dis­ap­proval.

“Boys,” said Mr. Weasley un­der his breath, “I don't want you bet­ting….That's all your sav­ings….Your moth­er -”

“Don't be a spoil­sport, Arthur!” boomed Lu­do Bag­man, rat­tling his pock­ets ex­cit­ed­ly. “They're old enough to know what they want! You reck­on Ire­land will win but Krum'll get the Snitch? Not a chance, boys, not a chance….I'll give you ex­cel­lent odds on that one….We'll add five Galleons for the fun­ny wand, then, shall we….”

Mr. Weasley looked on help­less­ly as Lu­do Bag­man whipped out a note­book and quill and be­gan jot­ting down the twins' names.

“Cheers,” said George, tak­ing the slip of parch­ment Bag­man hand­ed him and tuck­ing it away in­to the front of his robes. Bag­man turned most cheer­ful­ly back to Mr. Weasley.

“Couldn't do me a brew, I sup­pose? I'm keep­ing an eye out for Bar­ty Crouch. My Bul­gar­ian op­po­site num­ber's mak­ing dif­fi­cul­ties, and I can't un­der­stand a word he's say­ing. Bar­ty'll be able to sort it out. He speaks about a hun­dred and fifty lan­guages.”

“Mr. Crouch?” said Per­cy, sud­den­ly aban­don­ing his look of pok­er-​stiff dis­ap­proval and pos­itive­ly writhing with ex­cite­ment. “He speaks over two hun­dred! Mer­mish and Gob­blede­gook and Troll.…”

“Any­one can speak Troll,” said Fred dis­mis­sive­ly. “All you have to do is point and grunt.”

Per­cy threw Fred an ex­treme­ly nasty look and stoked the fire vig­or­ous­ly to bring the ket­tle back to the boil.

“Any news of Bertha Jorkins yet, Lu­do?” Mr. Weasley asked as Bag­man set­tled him­self down on the grass be­side them all.

“Not a dicky bird,” said Bag­man com­fort­ably. “But she'll turn up. Poor old Bertha…mem­ory like a leaky caul­dron and no sense of di­rec­tion. Lost, you take my word for it. She'll wan­der back in­to the of­fice some­time in Oc­to­ber, think­ing it's still Ju­ly.”

“You don't think it might be time to send some­one to look for her?” Mr. Weasley sug­gest­ed ten­ta­tive­ly as Per­cy hand­ed Bag­man his tea.

“Bar­ty Crouch keeps say­ing that,” said Bag­man, his round eyes widen­ing in­no­cent­ly, “but we re­al­ly can't spare any­one at the mo­ment. Oh - talk of the dev­il! Bar­ty!”

A wiz­ard had just Ap­pa­rat­ed at their fire­side, and he could not have made more of a con­trast with Lu­do Bag­man, sprawled on the grass in his old Wasp robes. Bar­ty Crouch was a stiff, up­right, el­der­ly man, dressed in an im­pec­ca­bly crisp suit and tie. The part­ing in his short gray hair was al­most un­nat­ural­ly straight, and his nar­row tooth­brush mus­tache looked as though he trimmed it us­ing a slide rule. His shoes were very high­ly pol­ished. Har­ry could see at once why Per­cy idol­ized him. Per­cy was a great be­liev­er in rigid­ly fol­low­ing rules, and Mr. Crouch had com­plied with the rule about Mug­gle dress­ing so thor­ough­ly that he could have passed for a bank man­ag­er; Har­ry doubt­ed even Un­cle Ver­non would have spot­ted him for what he re­al­ly was.

“Pull up a bit of grass, Bar­ry,” said Lu­do bright­ly, pat­ting the ground be­side him.

“No thank you, Lu­do,” said Crouch, and there was a bite of im­pa­tience in his voice. “I've been look­ing for you ev­ery­where. The Bul­gar­ians are in­sist­ing we add an­oth­er twelve seats to the Top Box.”

“Oh is that what they're af­ter?” said Bag­man. I thought the chap was ask­ing to bor­row a pair of tweez­ers. Bit of a strong ac­cent."

“Mr. Crouch!” said Per­cy breath­less­ly, sunk in­to a kind of half­bow that made him look like a hunch­back. “Would you like a cup of tea?”

“Oh,” said Mr. Crouch, look­ing over at Per­cy in mild sur­prise. “Yes - thank you, Weath­er­by.”

Fred and George choked in­to their own cups. Per­cy, very pink around the ears, bus­ied him­self with the ket­tle.

“Oh and I've been want­ing a word with you too, Arthur,” said Mr. Crouch, his sharp eyes falling up­on Mr. Weasley. “Ali Bashir's on the warpath. He wants a word with you about your em­bar­go on fly­ing car­pets.”

Mr. Weasley heaved a deep sigh.

“I sent him an owl about that just last week. If I've told him once I've told him a hun­dred times: Car­pets are de­fined as a Mug­gle Ar­ti­fact by the Reg­istry of Pro­scribed Charmable Ob­jects, but will he lis­ten?”

“I doubt it,” said Mr. Crouch, ac­cept­ing a cup from Per­cy. “He's des­per­ate to ex­port here.”

“Well, they'll nev­er re­place brooms in Britain, will they?” said Bag­man.

“Ali thinks there's a niche in the mar­ket for a fam­ily ve­hi­cle, said Mr. Crouch. ”I re­mem­ber my grand­fa­ther had an Axmin­ster that could seat twelve - but that was be­fore car­pets were banned, of course."

He spoke as though he want­ed to leave no­body in any doubt that all his an­ces­tors had abid­ed strict­ly by the law.

“So, been keep­ing busy, Bar­ty?” said Bag­man breezi­ly.

“Fair­ly,” said Mr. Crouch dry­ly. “Or­ga­niz­ing Portkeys across five con­ti­nents is no mean feat, Lu­do.”

“I ex­pect you'll both be glad when this is over?” said Mr. Weasley.

Lu­do Bag­man looked shocked.

“Glad! Don't know when I've had more fun….Still, it's not as though we haven't got any­thing to took for­ward to, eh, Bar­ty? Eh? Plen­ty left to or­ga­nize, eh?”

Mr. Crouch raised his eye­brows at Bag­man.

“We agreed not to make the an­nounce­ment un­til all the de­tails -”

“Oh de­tails!” said Bag­man, wav­ing the word away like a cloud of midges. “They've signed, haven't they? They've agreed, haven't they? I bet you any­thing these kids'll know soon enough any­way. I mean, it's hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts -”

“Lu­do, we need to meet the Bul­gar­ians, you know,” said Mr. Crouch sharply, cut­ting Bag­man's re­marks short. “Thank you for the tea, Weath­er­by.”

He pushed his un­drunk tea back at Per­cy and wait­ed for Lu­do to rise; Bag­man strug­gled to his feet, swig­ging down the last of his tea, the gold in his pock­ets chink­ing mer­ri­ly.

“See you all lat­er!” he said. “You'll be up in the Top Box with me - I'm com­men­tat­ing!” He waved, Bar­ty Crouch nod­ded curt­ly, and both of them Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.

“What's hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts, Dad?” said Fred at once. “What were they talk­ing about?”

“You'll find out soon enough,” said Mr.Weasley, smil­ing.

“It's clas­si­fied in­for­ma­tion, un­til such time as the Min­istry de­cides to re­lease it,” said Per­cy stiffly. “Mr. Crouch was quite right not to dis­close it.”

“Oh shut up, Weath­er­by,” said Fred.

A sense of ex­cite­ment rose like a pal­pa­ble cloud over the camp­site as the af­ter­noon wore on. By dusk, the still sum­mer air it­self seemed to be quiv­er­ing with an­tic­ipa­tion, and as dark­ness spread like a cur­tain over the thou­sands of wait­ing wiz­ards, the last ves­tiges of pre­tence dis­ap­peared: the Min­istry seemed to have bowed to the in­evitable and stopped fight­ing the signs of bla­tant mag­ic now break­ing out ev­ery­where.

Sales­men were Ap­pa­rat­ing ev­ery few feet, car­ry­ing trays and push­ing carts full of ex­traor­di­nary mer­chan­dise. There were lu­mi­nous rosettes - green for Ire­land, red for Bul­gar­ia - which were squeal­ing the names of the play­ers, point­ed green hats be­decked with danc­ing sham­rocks, Bul­gar­ian scarves adorned with li­ons that re­al­ly roared, flags from both coun­tries that played their na­tion­al an­thems as they were waved; there were tiny mod­els of Fire­bolts that re­al­ly flew, and col­lectible fig­ures of fa­mous play­ers, which strolled across the palm of your hand, preen­ing them­selves.

“Been sav­ing my pock­et mon­ey all sum­mer for this,” Ron told Har­ry as they and Hermione strolled through the sales­men, buy­ing sou­venirs. Though Ron pur­chased a danc­ing sham­rock hat and a large green rosette, he al­so bought a small fig­ure of Vik­tor Krum, the Bul­gar­ian Seek­er. The minia­ture Krum walked back­ward and for­ward over Ron's hand, scowl­ing up at the green rosette above him.

“Wow, look at these!” said Har­ry, hur­ry­ing over to a cart piled high with what looked like brass binoc­ulars, ex­cept that they were cov­ered with all sorts of weird knobs and di­als.

“Om­nioc­ulars,” said the saleswiz­ard ea­ger­ly. “You can re­play ac­tion…slow ev­ery­thing down…and they flash up a play-​by-​play break­down if you need it. Bar­gain - ten Galleons each.”

“Wish I hadn't bought this now,” said Ron, ges­tur­ing at his danc­ing sham­rock hat and gaz­ing long­ing­ly at the Om­nioc­ulars.

“Three pairs,” said Har­ry firm­ly to the wiz­ard.

“No - don't both­er,” said Ron, go­ing red. He was al­ways touchy about the fact that Har­ry, who had in­her­it­ed a small for­tune from his par­ents, had much more mon­ey than he did.

“You won't be get­ting any­thing for Christ­mas,” Har­ry told him, thrust­ing Om­nioc­ulars in­to his and Hermione's hands. “For about ten years, mind.”

“Fair enough,” said Ron, grin­ning.

“Oooh, thanks, Har­ry,” said Hermione. “And I'll get us some pro­grams, look -”

Their mon­ey bags con­sid­er­ably lighter, they went back to the tents. Bill, Char­lie, and Gin­ny were all sport­ing green rosettes too, and Mr. Weasley was car­ry­ing an Irish flag. Fred and George had no sou­venirs as they had giv­en Bag­man all their gold.

And then a deep, boom­ing gong sound­ed some­where be­yond the woods, and at once, green and red lanterns blazed in­to life in the trees, light­ing a path to the field.

“It's time!” said Mr. Weasley, look­ing as ex­cit­ed as any of them. “Come on, let's go!”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER EIGHT


THE QUID­DITCH WORLD CUP



C lutch­ing their pur­chas­es, Mr. Weasley in the lead, they all hur­ried in­to the wood, fol­low­ing the lantern-​lit trail. They could hear the sounds of thou­sands of peo­ple mov­ing around them, shouts and laugh­ter, snatch­es of singing. The at­mo­sphere of fever­ish ex­cite­ment was high­ly in­fec­tious; Har­ry couldn't stop grin­ning. They walked through the wood for twen­ty min­utes, talk­ing and jok­ing loud­ly, un­til at last they emerged on the oth­er side and found them­selves in the shad­ow of a gi­gan­tic sta­di­um. Though Har­ry could see on­ly a frac­tion of the im­mense gold walls sur­round­ing the field, he could tell that ten cathe­drals would fit com­fort­ably in­side it.

“Seats a hun­dred thou­sand,” said Mr. Weasley, spot­ting the awestruck look on Har­ry's face. “Min­istry task force of five hun­dred have been work­ing on it all year. Mug­gle Re­pelling Charms on ev­ery inch of it. Ev­ery time Mug­gles have got any­where near here all year, they've sud­den­ly re­mem­bered ur­gent ap­point­ments and had to dash away again…bless them,” he added fond­ly, lead­ing the way to­ward the near­est en­trance, which was al­ready sur­round­ed by a swarm of shout­ing witch­es and wiz­ards.

“Prime seats!” said the Min­istry witch at the en­trance when she checked their tick­ets. “Top Box! Straight up­stairs, Arthur, and as high as you can go.”

The stairs in­to the sta­di­um were car­pet­ed in rich pur­ple. They clam­bered up­ward with the rest of the crowd, which slow­ly fil­tered away through doors in­to the stands to their left and right. Mr. Weasley's par­ty kept climb­ing, and at last they reached the top of the stair­case and found them­selves in a small box, set at the high­est point of the sta­di­um and sit­uat­ed ex­act­ly halfway be­tween the gold­en goal posts. About twen­ty pur­ple-​and-​gilt chairs stood in two rows here, and Har­ry, fil­ing in­to the front seats with the Weasleys, looked down up­on a scene the likes of which he could nev­er have imag­ined.

A hun­dred thou­sand witch­es and wiz­ards were tak­ing their places in the seats, which rose in lev­els around the long oval field. Ev­ery­thing was suf­fused with a mys­te­ri­ous gold­en light, which seemed to come from the sta­di­um it­self. The field looked smooth as vel­vet from their lofty po­si­tion. At ei­ther end of the field stood three goal hoops, fifty feet high; right op­po­site them, al­most at Har­ry's eye lev­el, was a gi­gan­tic black­board. Gold writ­ing kept dash­ing across it as though an in­vis­ible gi­ant's hand were scrawl­ing up­on the black­board and then wip­ing it off again; watch­ing it, Har­ry saw that it was flash­ing ad­ver­tise­ments across the field.



The Blue­bot­tle: A Broom for All the Fam­ily - safe, re­li­able, and with Built-​in An­ti-​Bur­gler Buzzer…Mrs. Show­er's All Pur­pose Mag­ical Mess Re­mover: No Pain, No Stain!…Gladrags Wiz­ard­wear - Lon­don, Paris, Hogsmeade…



Har­ry tore his eyes away from the sign and looked over his shoul­der to see who else was shar­ing the box with them. So far it was emp­ty, ex­cept for a tiny crea­ture sit­ting in the sec­ond from last seat at the end of the row be­hind them. The crea­ture, whose legs were so short they stuck out in front of it on the chair, was wear­ing a tea tow­el draped like a to­ga, and it had its face hid­den in its hands. Yet those long, bat­like ears were odd­ly fa­mil­iar….

“Dob­by?” said Har­ry in­cred­ulous­ly.

The tiny crea­ture looked up and stretched its fin­gers, re­veal­ing enor­mous brown eyes and a nose the ex­act size and shape of a large toma­to. It wasn't Dob­by - it was, how­ev­er, un­mis­tak­ably a house-​elf, as Har­ry's friend Dob­by had been. Har­ry had set Dob­by free from his old own­ers, the Mal­foy fam­ily.

“Did sir just call me Dob­by?” squeaked the elf cu­ri­ous­ly from be­tween its fin­gers. Its voice was high­er even than Dob­by's had been, a tee­ny, quiv­er­ing squeak of a voice, and Har­ry sus­pect­ed though it was very hard to tell with a house-​elf - that this one might just be fe­male. Ron and Hermione spun around in their seats to look. Though they had heard a lot about Dob­by from Har­ry, they had nev­er ac­tu­al­ly met him. Even Mr. Weasley looked around in in­ter­est.

“Sor­ry,” Har­ry told the elf, “I just thought you were some­one I knew.”

“But I knows Dob­by too, sir!” squeaked the elf. She was shield­ing her face, as though blind­ed by light, though the Top Box was not bright­ly lit. “My name is Winky, sir - and you, sir -” Her dark brown eyes widened to the size of side plates as they rest­ed up­on Har­ry's scar. “You is sure­ly Har­ry Pot­ter!”

“Yeah, I am,” said Har­ry.

“But Dob­by talks of you all the time, sir!” she said, low­er­ing her hands very slight­ly and look­ing awestruck.

“How is he?” said Har­ry. “How's free­dom suit­ing him?”

“Ah, sir,” said Winky, shak­ing her head, “ah sir, mean­ing no dis­re­spect, sir, but I is not sure you did Dob­by a fa­vor, sir, when you is set­ting him free.”

“Why?” said Har­ry, tak­en aback. “What's wrong with him?”

“Free­dom is go­ing to Dob­by's head, sir, ” said Winky sad­ly. “Ideas above his sta­tion, sir. Can't get an­oth­er po­si­tion, sir.”

“Why not?” said Har­ry.

Winky low­ered her voice by a half-​oc­tave and whis­pered, “He is want­ing pay­ing for his work, sir.”

“Pay­ing?” said Har­ry blankly. “Well - why shouldn't he be paid?”

Winky looked quite hor­ri­fied at the idea and closed her fin­gers slight­ly so that her face was half-​hid­den again.

“House-​elves is not paid, sir!” she said in a muf­fled squeak. “No, no, no. I says to Dob­by, I says, go find your­self a nice fam­ily and set­tle down, Dob­by. He is get­ting up to all sorts of high jinks, sir, what is un­be­com­ing to a house-​elf. You goes rack­et­ing around like this, Dob­by, I says, and next thing I hear you's up in front of the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures, like some com­mon gob­lin.”

“Well, it's about time he had a bit of fun,” said Har­ry.

“House-​elves is not sup­posed to have fun, Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Winky firm­ly, from be­hind her hands. “House-​elves does what they is told. I is not lik­ing heights at all, Har­ry Pot­ter” - she glanced to­ward the edge of the box and gulped - “but my mas­ter sends me to the Top Box and I comes, sir.”

“Why's he sent you up here, if he knows you don't like heights?” said Har­ry, frown­ing.

“Mas­ter - mas­ter wants me to save him a seat, Har­ry Pot­ter. He is very busy,” said Winky, tilt­ing her head to­ward the emp­ty space be­side her. “Winky is wish­ing she is back in mas­ter's tent, Har­ry Pot­ter, but Winky does what she is told. Winky is a good house-​elf.”

She gave the edge of the box an­oth­er fright­ened look and hid her eyes com­plete­ly again. Har­ry turned back to the oth­ers.

“So that's a house-​elf?” Ron mut­tered. “Weird things, aren't they?”

“Dob­by was weird­er,” said Har­ry fer­vent­ly.

Ron pulled out his Om­nioc­ulars and start­ed test­ing them, star­ing down in­to the crowd on the oth­er side of the sta­di­um.

“Wild!” he said, twid­dling the re­play knob on the side. I can make that old bloke down there pick his nose again…and again…and again…"

Hermione, mean­while, was skim­ming ea­ger­ly through her vel­vetcov­ered, tas­seled pro­gram.

“'A dis­play from the team mas­cots will pre­cede the match,”' she read aloud.

“Oh that's al­ways worth watch­ing,” said Mr. Weasley. “Na­tion­al teams bring crea­tures from their na­tive land, you know, to put on a bit of a show.”

The box filled grad­ual­ly around them over the next half hour. Mr. Weasley kept shak­ing hands with peo­ple who were ob­vi­ous­ly very im­por­tant wiz­ards. Per­cy jumped to his feet so of­ten that he looked as though he were try­ing to sit on a hedge­hog. When Cor­nelius Fudge, the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic him­self, ar­rived, Per­cy bowed so low that his glass­es fell off and shat­tered. High­ly em­bar­rassed, he re­paired them with his wand and there­after re­mained in his seat, throw­ing jeal­ous looks at Har­ry, whom Cor­nelius Fudge had greet­ed like an old friend. They had met be­fore, and Fudge shook Har­ry's hand in a fa­ther­ly fash­ion, asked how he was, and in­tro­duced him to the wiz­ards on ei­ther side of him.

“Har­ry Pot­ter, you know,” he told the Bul­gar­ian min­is­ter loud­ly, who was wear­ing splen­did robes of black vel­vet trimmed with gold and didn't seem to un­der­stand a word of En­glish. “Har­ry Pot­ter…oh come on now, you know who he is…the boy who sur­vived You-​Know-​Who…you do know who he is -”

The Bul­gar­ian wiz­ard sud­den­ly spot­ted Har­ry's scar and start­ed gab­bling loud­ly and ex­cit­ed­ly, point­ing at it.

“Knew we'd get there in the end,” said Fudge weari­ly to Har­ry. “I'm no great shakes at lan­guages; I need Bar­ty Crouch for this sort of thing. Ah, I see his house-​elf's sav­ing him a seat….Good job too, these Bul­gar­ian blighters have been try­ing to cadge all the best places…ah, and here's Lu­cius!”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione turned quick­ly. Edg­ing along the sec­ond row to three still-​emp­ty seats right be­hind Mr. Weasley were none oth­er than Dob­by the house-​elf's for­mer own­ers: Lu­cius Mal­foy; his son, Dra­co; and a wom­an Har­ry sup­posed must be Dra­co's moth­er.

Har­ry and Dra­co Mal­foy had been en­emies ev­er since their very first jour­ney to Hog­warts. A pale boy with a point­ed face and white-​blond hair, Dra­co great­ly re­sem­bled his fa­ther. His moth­er was blonde too; tall and slim, she would have been nice-​look­ing if she hadn't been wear­ing a look that sug­gest­ed there was a nasty smell un­der her nose.

“Ah, Fudge,” said Mr. Mal­foy, hold­ing out his hand as he reached the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. “How are you? I don't think you've met my wife, Nar­cis­sa? Or our son, Dra­co?”

“How do you do, how do you do?” said Fudge, smil­ing and bow­ing to Mrs. Mal­foy. “And al­low me to in­tro­duce you to Mr. Oblan­sk - Obalon­sk - Mr. - well, he's the Bul­gar­ian Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, and he can't un­der­stand a word I'm say­ing any­way, so nev­er mind. And let's see who else - you know Arthur Weasley, I dare­say?”

It was a tense mo­ment. Mr. Weasley and Mr. Mal­foy looked at each oth­er and Har­ry vivid­ly re­called the last time they had come face-​to-​face: It had been in Flour­ish and Blotts' book­shop, and they had had a fight. Mr. Mal­foy's cold gray eyes swept over Mr. Weasley, and then up and down the row.

“Good lord, Arthur,” he said soft­ly. “What did you have to sell to get seats in the Top Box? Sure­ly your house wouldn't have fetched this much?”

Fudge, who wasn't lis­ten­ing, said, “Lu­cius has just giv­en a very gen­er­ous con­tri­bu­tion to St. Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­juries, Arthur. He's here as my guest.”

“How - how nice,” said Mr. Weasley, with a very strained smile.

Mr. Mal­foy's eyes had re­turned to Hermione, who went slight­ly pink, but stared de­ter­mined­ly back at him. Har­ry knew ex­act­ly what was mak­ing Mr. Mal­foy's lip curl like that. The Mal­foys prid­ed them­selves on be­ing pure­bloods; in oth­er words, they con­sid­ered any­one of Mug­gle de­scent, like Hermione, sec­ond-​class. How­ev­er, un­der the gaze of the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, Mr. Mal­foy didn't dare say any­thing. He nod­ded sneer­ing­ly to Mr. Weasley and con­tin­ued down the line to his seats. Dra­co shot Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione one con­temp­tu­ous look, then set­tled him­self be­tween his moth­er and fa­ther.

“Slimy gits,” Ron mut­tered as he, Har­ry, and Hermione turned to face the field again. Next mo­ment, Lu­do Bag­man charged in­to the box.

“Ev­ery­one ready?” he said, his round face gleam­ing like a great, ex­cit­ed Edam. “Min­is­ter - ready to go?”

“Ready when you are, Lu­do,” said Fudge com­fort­ably.

Lu­do whipped out his wand, di­rect­ed it at his own throat, and said “Sonorus!” and then spoke over the roar of sound that was now fill­ing the packed sta­di­um; his voice echoed over them, boom­ing in­to ev­ery cor­ner of the stands.

“Ladies and gen­tle­men…wel­come! Wel­come to the fi­nal of the four hun­dred and twen­ty-​sec­ond Quid­ditch World Cup!”

The spec­ta­tors screamed and clapped. Thou­sands of flags waved, adding their dis­cor­dant na­tion­al an­thems to the rack­et. The huge black­board op­po­site them was wiped clear of its last mes­sage (Bertie Bott's Ev­ery Fla­vor Beans - A Risk With Ev­ery Mouth­ful!) and now showed BUL­GAR­IA: 0, IRE­LAND: 0.

“And now, with­out fur­ther ado, al­low me to in­tro­duce…the Bul­gar­ian Na­tion­al Team Mas­cots!”

The right-​hand side of the stands, which was a sol­id block of scar­let, roared its ap­proval.

“I won­der what they've brought,” said Mr. Weasley, lean­ing for­ward in his seat. “Aaah!” He sud­den­ly whipped off his glass­es and pol­ished them hur­ried­ly on his robes. “Veela!”

“What are veel -?”

But a hun­dred veela were now glid­ing out on­to the field, and Har­ry's ques­tion was an­swered for him. Veela were wom­en…the most beau­ti­ful wom­en Har­ry had ev­er seen…ex­cept that they weren't - they couldn't be - hu­man. This puz­zled Har­ry for a mo­ment while he tried to guess what ex­act­ly they could be; what could make their skin shine moon-​bright like that, or their white-​gold hair fan out be­hind them with­out wind…but then the mu­sic start­ed, and Har­ry stopped wor­ry­ing about them not be­ing hu­man - in fact, he stopped wor­ry­ing about any­thing at all.

The veela had start­ed to dance, and Har­ry's mind had gone com­plete­ly and bliss­ful­ly blank. All that mat­tered in the world was that he kept watch­ing the veela, be­cause if they stopped danc­ing, ter­ri­ble things would hap­pen.

And as the veela danced faster and faster, wild, half-​formed thoughts start­ed chas­ing through Har­ry's dazed mind. He want­ed to do some­thing very im­pres­sive, right now. Jump­ing from the box in­to the sta­di­um seemed a good idea…but would it be good enough?

“Har­ry, what are you do­ing?” said Hermione's voice from a long way off.

The mu­sic stopped. Har­ry blinked. He was stand­ing up, and one of his legs was rest­ing on the wall of the box. Next to him, Ron was frozen in an at­ti­tude that looked as though he were about to dive from a spring­board.

An­gry yells were fill­ing the sta­di­um. The crowd didn't want the veela to go. Har­ry was with them; he would, of course, be sup­port­ing Bul­gar­ia, and he won­dered vague­ly why he had a large green sham­rock pinned to his chest. Ron, mean­while, was ab­sent­mind­ed­ly shred­ding the sham­rocks on his hat. Mr. Weasley, smil­ing slight­ly, leaned over to Ron and tugged the hat out of his hands.

“You'll be want­ing that,” he said, “once Ire­land have had their say.”

“Huh?” said Ron, star­ing open­mouthed at the veela, who had now lined up along one side of the field.

Hermione made a loud tut­ting noise. She reached up and pulled Har­ry back in­to his seat. “Hon­est­ly!” she said.

“And now,” roared Lu­do Bag­man's voice, “kind­ly put your wands in the air…for the Irish Na­tion­al Team Mas­cots!”

Next mo­ment, what seemed to be a great green-​and-​gold comet came zoom­ing in­to the sta­di­um. It did one cir­cuit of the sta­di­um, then split in­to two small­er comets, each hurtling to­ward the goal posts. A rain­bow arced sud­den­ly across the field, con­nect­ing the two balls of light. The crowd oooohed and aaaaa­hed, as though at a fire­works dis­play. Now the rain­bow fad­ed and the balls of light re­unit­ed and merged; they had formed a great shim­mer­ing sham­rock, which rose up in­to the sky and be­gan to soar over the stands. Some­thing like gold­en rain seemed to be falling from it -

“Ex­cel­lent!” yelled Ron as the sham­rock soared over them, and heavy gold coins rained from it, bounc­ing off their heads and seats. Squint­ing up at the sham­rock, Har­ry re­al­ized that it was ac­tu­al­ly com­prised of thou­sands of tiny lit­tle beard­ed men with red vests, each car­ry­ing a minute lamp of gold or green.

“Lep­rechauns!” said Mr. Weasley over the tu­mul­tuous ap­plause of the crowd, many of whom were still fight­ing and rum­mag­ing around un­der their chairs to re­trieve the gold.

“There you go,” Ron yelled hap­pi­ly, stuff­ing a fist­ful of gold coins in­to Har­ry's hand, “for the Om­nioc­ulars! Now you've got to buy me a Christ­mas present, ha!”

The great sham­rock dis­solved, the lep­rechauns drift­ed down on­to the field on the op­po­site side from the veela, and set­tled them­selves cross-​legged to watch the match.

“And now, ladies and gen­tle­men, kind­ly wel­come - the Bul­gar­ian Na­tion­al Quid­ditch Team! I give you - Dim­itrov!”

A scar­let-​clad fig­ure on a broom­stick, mov­ing so fast it was blurred, shot out on­to the field from an en­trance far be­low, to wild ap­plause from the Bul­gar­ian sup­port­ers.

“Ivano­va!”

A sec­ond scar­let-​robed play­er zoomed out.

“Zo­graf! Lev­ski! Vulchanov! Volkov! Aaaaaaand - Krum!”

“That's him, that's him!” yelled Ron, fol­low­ing Krum with his Om­nioc­ulars. Har­ry quick­ly fo­cused his own.

Vik­tor Krum was thin, dark, and sal­low-​skinned, with a large curved nose and thick black eye­brows. He looked like an over­grown bird of prey. It was hard to be­lieve he was on­ly eigh­teen.

“And now, please greet - the Irish Na­tion­al Quid­ditch Team!” yelled Bag­man. “Pre­sent­ing - Con­nol­ly! Ryan! Troy! Mul­let! Moran! Quigley! Aaaaaand - Lynch!”

Sev­en green blurs swept on­to the field; Har­ry spun a small di­al on the side of his Om­nioc­ulars and slowed the play­ers down enough to read the word “Fire­bolt” on each of their brooms and see their names, em­broi­dered in sil­ver, up­on their backs.

“And here, all the way from Egypt, our ref­er­ee, ac­claimed Chair­wiz­ard of the In­ter­na­tion­al As­so­ci­ation of Quid­ditch, Has­san Mostafa!”

A small and skin­ny wiz­ard, com­plete­ly bald but with a mus­tache to ri­val Un­cle Ver­non's, wear­ing robes of pure gold to match the sta­di­um, strode out on­to the field. A sil­ver whis­tle was pro­trud­ing from un­der the mus­tache, and he was car­ry­ing a large wood­en crate un­der one arm, his broom­stick un­der the oth­er. Har­ry spun the speed di­al on his Om­nioc­ulars back to nor­mal, watch­ing close­ly as Mostafa mount­ed his broom­stick and kicked the crate open - four balls burst in­to the air: the scar­let Quaf­fle, the two black Bludgers, and (Har­ry saw it for the briefest mo­ment, be­fore it sped out of sight) the mi­nus­cule, winged Gold­en Snitch. With a sharp blast on his whis­tle, Mostafa shot in­to the air af­ter the balls.

“Theeeeeeeey're OFF!” screamed Bag­man. “And it's Mul­let! Troy! Moran! Dim­itrov! Back to Mul­let! Troy! Lev­ski! Moran!”

It was Quid­ditch as Har­ry had nev­er seen it played be­fore. He was press­ing his Om­nioc­ulars so hard to his glass­es that they were cut­ting in­to the bridge of his nose. The speed of the play­ers was in­cred­ible - the Chasers were throw­ing the Quaf­fle to one an­oth­er so fast that Bag­man on­ly had time to say their names. Har­ry spun the slow di­al on the right of his Om­nioc­ulars again, pressed the play-​by-​play but­ton on the top, and he was im­me­di­ate­ly watch­ing in slow mo­tion, while glit­ter­ing pur­ple let­ter­ing flashed across the lens­es and the noise of the crowd pound­ed against his eardrums.

HAWK­SHEAD AT­TACK­ING FOR­MA­TION , he read as he watched the three Irish Chasers zoom close­ly to­geth­er, Troy in the cen­ter, slight­ly ahead of Mul­let and Moran, bear­ing down up­on the Bul­gar­ians. PORSKOFF PLOY flashed up next, as Troy made as though to dart up­ward with the Quaf­fle, draw­ing away the Bul­gar­ian Chas­er Ivano­va and drop­ping the Quaf­fle to Moran. One of the Bul­gar­ian Beat­ers, Volkov, swung hard at a pass­ing Bludger with his small club, knock­ing it in­to Moran's path; Moran ducked to avoid the Bludger and dropped the Quaf­fle; and Lev­ski, soar­ing be­neath, caught it - “TROY SCORES!” roared Bag­man, and the sta­di­um shud­dered with a roar of ap­plause and cheers. “Ten ze­ro to Ire­land!”

“What?” Har­ry yelled, look­ing wild­ly around through his Om­nioc­ulars. “But Lev­ski's got the Quaf­fle!”

“Har­ry, if you're not go­ing to watch at nor­mal speed, you're go­ing to miss things!” shout­ed Hermione, who was danc­ing up and down, wav­ing her arms in the air while Troy did a lap of hon­or around the field. Har­ry looked quick­ly over the top of his Om­nioc­ulars and saw that the lep­rechauns watch­ing from the side­lines had all risen in­to the air again and formed the great, glit­ter­ing sham­rock. Across the field, the veela were watch­ing them sulk­ily.

Fu­ri­ous with him­self, Har­ry spun his speed di­al back to nor­mal as play re­sumed.

Har­ry knew enough about Quid­ditch to see that the Irish Chasers were su­perb. They worked as a seam­less team, their move­ments so well co­or­di­nat­ed that they ap­peared to be read­ing one an­oth­er's minds as they po­si­tioned them­selves, and the rosette on Har­ry's chest kept squeak­ing their names: “Troy - Mul­let - Moran!” And with­in ten min­utes, Ire­land had scored twice more, bring­ing their lead to thir­ty-​ze­ro and caus­ing a thun­der­ous tide of roars and ap­plause from the green-​clad sup­port­ers.

The match be­came still faster, but more bru­tal. Volkov and Vulchanov, the Bul­gar­ian Beat­ers, were whack­ing the Bludgers as fierce­ly as pos­si­ble at the Irish Chasers, and were start­ing to pre­vent them from us­ing some of their best moves; twice they were forced to scat­ter, and then, fi­nal­ly, Ivano­va man­aged to break through their ranks; dodge the Keep­er, Ryan; and score Bul­gar­ia's first goal.

“Fin­gers in your ears!” bel­lowed Mr. Weasley as the veela start­ed to dance in cel­ebra­tion. Har­ry screwed up his eyes too; he want­ed to keep his mind on the game. Af­ter a few sec­onds, he chanced a glance at the field. The veela had stopped danc­ing, and Bul­gar­ia was again in pos­ses­sion of the Quaf­fle.

“Dim­itrov! Lev­ski! Dim­itrov! Ivano­va - oh I say!” roared Bag­man.

One hun­dred thou­sand wiz­ards gasped as the two Seek­ers, Krum and Lynch, plum­met­ed through the cen­ter of the Chasers, so fast that it looked as though they had just jumped from air­planes with­out parachutes. Har­ry fol­lowed their de­scent through his Om­nioc­ulars, squint­ing to see where the Snitch was -

“They're go­ing to crash!” screamed Hermione next to Har­ry.

She was half right - at the very last sec­ond, Vik­tor Krum pulled out of the dive and spi­raled off. Lynch, how­ev­er, hit the ground with a dull thud that could be heard through­out the sta­di­um. A huge groan rose from the Irish seats.

“Fool!” moaned Mr. Weasley. “Krum was feint­ing!”

“It's time-​out!” yelled Bag­man's voice, “as trained medi­wiz­ards hur­ry on­to the field to ex­am­ine Aidan Lynch!”

“He'll be okay, he on­ly got ploughed!” Char­lie said re­as­sur­ing­ly to Gin­ny, who was hang­ing over the side of the box, look­ing hor­ror-​struck. “Which is what Krum was af­ter, of course.…”

Har­ry hasti­ly pressed the re­play and play-​by-​play but­tons on his Om­nioc­ulars, twid­dled the speed di­al, and put them back up to his eyes.

He watched as Krum and Lynch dived again in slow mo­tion. WRON­SKI DE­FEN­SIVE FEINT - DAN­GER­OUS SEEK­ER DI­VER­SION read the shin­ing pur­ple let­ter­ing across his lens­es. He saw Krum's face con­tort­ed with con­cen­tra­tion as he pulled out of the dive just in time, while Lynch was flat­tened, and he un­der­stood - Krum hadn't seen the Snitch at all, he was just mak­ing Lynch copy him. Har­ry had nev­er seen any­one fly like that; Krum hard­ly looked as though he was us­ing a broom­stick at all; he moved so eas­ily through the air that he looked un­sup­port­ed and weight­less. Har­ry turned his Om­nioc­ulars back to nor­mal and fo­cused them on Krum. He was now cir­cling high above Lynch, who was be­ing re­vived by medi­wiz­ards with cups of po­tion. Har­ry, fo­cus­ing still more close­ly up­on Krum's face, saw his dark eyes dart­ing all over the ground a hun­dred feet be­low. He was us­ing the time while Lynch was re­vived to look for the Snitch with­out in­ter­fer­ence.

Lynch got to his feet at last, to loud cheers from the green-​clad sup­port­ers, mount­ed his Fire­bolt, and kicked back off in­to the air. His re­vival seemed to give Ire­land new heart. When Mostafa blew his whis­tle again, the Chasers moved in­to ac­tion with a skill un­ri­valed by any­thing Har­ry had seen so far.

Af­ter fif­teen more fast and fu­ri­ous min­utes, Ire­land had pulled ahead by ten more goals. They were now lead­ing by one hun­dred and thir­ty points to ten, and the game was start­ing to get dirt­ier.

As Mul­let shot to­ward the goal posts yet again, clutch­ing the Quaf­fle tight­ly un­der her arm, the Bul­gar­ian Keep­er, Zo­graf, flew out to meet her. What­ev­er hap­pened was over so quick­ly Har­ry didn't catch it, but a scream of rage from the Irish crowd, and Mostafa's long, shrill whis­tle blast, told him it had been a foul.

“And Mostafa takes the Bul­gar­ian Keep­er to task for cob­bing - ex­ces­sive use of el­bows!” Bag­man in­formed the roar­ing spec­ta­tors. “And - yes, it's a penal­ty to Ire­land!”

The lep­rechauns, who had risen an­gri­ly in­to the air like a swarm of glit­ter­ing hor­nets when Mul­let had been fouled, now dart­ed to­geth­er to form the words “HA, HA, HA!”

The veela on the oth­er side of the field leapt to their feet, tossed their hair an­gri­ly, and start­ed to dance again.

As one, the Weasley boys and Har­ry stuffed their fin­gers in­to their ears, but Hermione, who hadn't both­ered, was soon tug­ging on Har­ry's arm. He turned to look at her, and she pulled his fin­gers im­pa­tient­ly out of his ears.

“Look at the ref­er­ee!” she said, gig­gling.

Har­ry looked down at the field. Has­san Mostafa had land­ed right in front of the danc­ing veela, and was act­ing very odd­ly in­deed. He was flex­ing his mus­cles and smooth­ing his mus­tache ex­cit­ed­ly.

“Now, we can't have that!” said Lu­do Bag­man, though he sound­ed high­ly amused. “Some­body slap the ref­er­ee!”

A medi­wiz­ard came tear­ing across the field, his fin­gers stuffed in­to his own ears, and kicked Mostafa hard in the shins. Mostafa seemed to come to him­self; Har­ry, watch­ing through the Om­nioc­ulars again, saw that he looked ex­cep­tion­al­ly em­bar­rassed and had start­ed shout­ing at the veela, who had stopped danc­ing and were look­ing muti­nous.

“And un­less I'm much mis­tak­en, Mostafa is ac­tu­al­ly at­tempt­ing to send off the Bul­gar­ian team mas­cots!” said Bag­man's voice. "Now there's some­thing we haven't seen be­fore…Oh this could turn nasty…

It did: The Bul­gar­ian Beat­ers, Volkov and Vulchanov, land­ed on ei­ther side of Mostafa and be­gan ar­gu­ing fu­ri­ous­ly with him, ges­tic­ulat­ing to­ward the lep­rechauns, who had now glee­ful­ly formed the words “HEE, HEE, HEE.” Mostafa was not im­pressed by the Bul­gar­ians' ar­gu­ments, how­ev­er; he was jab­bing his fin­ger in­to the air, clear­ly telling them to get fly­ing again, and when they re­fused, he gave two short blasts on his whis­tle.

“Two penal­ties for Ire­land!” shout­ed Bag­man, and the Bul­gar­ian crowd howled with anger. “And Volkov and Vulchanov had bet­ter get back on those brooms…yes…there they go…and Troy takes the Quaf­fle…”

Play now reached a lev­el of fe­roc­ity be­yond any­thing they had yet seen. The Beat­ers on both sides were act­ing with­out mer­cy: Volkov and Vulchanov in par­tic­ular seemed not to care whether their clubs made con­tact with Bludger or hu­man as they swung them vi­olent­ly through the air. Dim­itrov shot straight at Moran, who had the Quaf­fle, near­ly knock­ing her off her broom.

“Foul!” roared the Irish sup­port­ers as one, all stand­ing up in a great wave of green.

“Foul!” echoed Lu­do Bag­man's mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied voice. “Dim­itrov skins Moran - de­lib­er­ate­ly fly­ing to col­lide there - and it's got to be an­oth­er penal­ty - yes, there's the whis­tle!”

The lep­rechauns had risen in­to the air again, and this time, they formed a gi­ant hand, which was mak­ing a very rude sign in­deed at the veela across the field. At this, the veela lost con­trol. In­stead of danc­ing, they launched them­selves across the field and be­gan throw­ing what seemed to be hand­fuls of fire at the lep­rechauns. Watch­ing through his Om­nioc­ulars, Har­ry saw that they didn't look re­mote­ly beau­ti­ful now. On the con­trary, their faces were elon­gat­ing in­to sharp, cru­el-​beaked bird heads, and long, scaly wings were burst­ing from their shoul­ders -

“And that, boys,” yelled Mr. Weasley over the tu­mult of the crowd be­low, “is why you should nev­er go for looks alone!”

Min­istry wiz­ards were flood­ing on­to the field to sep­arate the veela and the lep­rechauns, but with lit­tle suc­cess; mean­while, the pitched bat­tle be­low was noth­ing to the one tak­ing place above. Har­ry turned this way and that, star­ing through his Om­nioc­ulars, as the Quaffie changed hands with the speed of a bul­let.

“Lev­ski - Dim­itrov - Moran - Troy - Mul­let - Ivano­va - Moran again - Moran - MORAN SCORES!”

But the cheers of the Irish sup­port­ers were bare­ly heard over the shrieks of the veela, the blasts now is­su­ing from the Min­istry mem­bers' wands, and the fu­ri­ous roars of the Bul­gar­ians. The game recom­menced im­me­di­ate­ly; now Lev­ski had the Quaf­fle, now Dim­itrov -

The Irish Beat­er Quigley swung heav­ily at a pass­ing Bludger, and hit it as hard as pos­si­ble to­ward Krum, who did not duck quick­ly enough. It hit him full in the face.

There was a deaf­en­ing groan from the crowd; Krum's nose looked bro­ken, there was blood ev­ery­where, but Has­san Mostafa didn't blow his whis­tle. He had be­come dis­tract­ed, and Har­ry couldn't blame him; one of the veela had thrown a hand­ful of fire and set his broom tail alight.

Har­ry want­ed some­one to re­al­ize that Krum was in­jured; even though he was sup­port­ing Ire­land, Krum was the most ex­cit­ing play­er on the field. Ron ob­vi­ous­ly felt the same.

“Time-​out! Ah, come on, he can't play like that, look at him -”

“Look at Lynch!” Har­ry yelled.

For the Irish Seek­er had sud­den­ly gone in­to a dive, and Har­ry was quite sure that this was no Wron­ski Feint; this was the re­al thing…

“He's seen the Snitch!” Har­ry shout­ed. “He's seen it! Look at him go!”

Half the crowd seemed to have re­al­ized what was hap­pen­ing; the Irish sup­port­ers rose in an­oth­er great wave of green, scream­ing their Seek­er on…but Krum was on his tail. How he could see where he was go­ing, Har­ry had no idea; there were flecks of blood fly­ing through the air be­hind him, but he was draw­ing lev­el with Lynch now as the pair of them hur­tled to­ward the ground again -

“They're go­ing to crash!” shrieked Hermione.

“They're not!” roared Ron.

“Lynch is!” yelled Har­ry.

And he was right - for the sec­ond time, Lynch hit the ground with tremen­dous force and was im­me­di­ate­ly stam­ped­ed by a horde of an­gry veela.

“The Snitch, where's the Snitch?” bel­lowed Char­lie, along the row.

“He's got it - Krum's got it - it's all over!” shout­ed Har­ry.

Krum, his red robes shin­ing with blood from his nose, was ris­ing gen­tly in­to the air, his fist held high, a glint of gold in his hand.

The score­board was flash­ing BUL­GAR­IA: 160, IRE­LAND: 170 across the crowd, who didn't seem to have re­al­ized what had hap­pened. Then, slow­ly, as though a great jum­bo jet were revving up, the rum­bling from the Ire­land sup­port­ers grew loud­er and loud­er and erupt­ed in­to screams of de­light.

“IRE­LAND WINS!” Bag­man shout­ed, who like the Irish, seemed to be tak­en aback by the sud­den end of the match.

“KRUM GETS THE SNITCH - BUT IRE­LAND WINS - good lord, I don't think any of us were ex­pect­ing that!”

“What did he catch the Snitch for?” Ron bel­lowed, even as he jumped up and down, ap­plaud­ing with his hands over his head. “He end­ed it when Ire­land were a hun­dred and six­ty points ahead, the id­iot!”

“He knew they were nev­er go­ing to catch up!” Har­ry shout­ed back over all the noise, al­so ap­plaud­ing loud­ly. "The Irish Chasers were too good…He want­ed to end it on his terms, that's all.…

“He was very brave, wasn't he?” Hermione said, lean­ing for­ward to watch Krum land as a swarm of medi­wiz­ards blast­ed a path through the bat­tling lep­rechauns and veela to get to him. “He looks a ter­ri­ble mess.…”

Har­ry put his Om­nioc­ulars to his eyes again. It was hard to see what was hap­pen­ing be­low, be­cause lep­rechauns were zoom­ing de­light­ed­ly all over the field, but he could just make out Krum, sur­round­ed by medi­wiz­ards. He looked surli­er than ev­er and re­fused to let them mop him up. His team mem­bers were around him, shak­ing their heads and look­ing de­ject­ed; a short way away, the Irish play­ers were danc­ing glee­ful­ly in a show­er of gold de­scend­ing from their mas­cots. Flags were wav­ing all over the sta­di­um, the Irish na­tion­al an­them blared from all sides; the veela were shrink­ing back in­to their usu­al, beau­ti­ful selves now, though look­ing dispir­it­ed and for­lorn.

“Vell, ve fought brave­ly,” said a gloomy voice be­hind Har­ry. He looked around; it was the Bul­gar­ian Min­is­ter of Mag­ic.

“You can speak En­glish!” said Fudge, sound­ing out­raged. “And you've been let­ting me mime ev­ery­thing all day!”

“Veil, it vos very fun­ny,” said the Bul­gar­ian min­is­ter, shrug­ging.

“And as the Irish team per­forms a lap of hon­or, flanked by their mas­cots, the Quid­ditch World Cup it­self is brought in­to the Top Box!” roared Bag­man.

Har­ry's eyes were sud­den­ly daz­zled by a blind­ing white light, as the Top Box was mag­ical­ly il­lu­mi­nat­ed so that ev­ery­one in the stands could see the in­side. Squint­ing to­ward the en­trance, he saw two pant­ing wiz­ards car­ry­ing a vast gold­en cup in­to the box, which they hand­ed to Cor­nelius Fudge, who was still look­ing very dis­grun­tled that he'd been us­ing sign lan­guage all day for noth­ing.

“Let's have a re­al­ly loud hand for the gal­lant losers - Bul­gar­ia!” Bag­man shout­ed.

And up the stairs in­to the box came the sev­en de­feat­ed Bul­gar­ian play­ers. The crowd be­low was ap­plaud­ing ap­pre­cia­tive­ly; Har­ry could see thou­sands and thou­sands of Om­nioc­ular lens­es flash­ing and wink­ing in their di­rec­tion.

One by one, the Bul­gar­ians filed be­tween the rows of seats in the box, and Bag­man called out the name of each as they shook hands with their own min­is­ter and then with Fudge. Krum, who was last in line, looked a re­al mess. Two black eyes were bloom­ing spec­tac­ular­ly on his bloody face. He was still hold­ing the Snitch. Har­ry no­ticed that he seemed much less co­or­di­nat­ed on the ground. He was slight­ly duck-​foot­ed and dis­tinct­ly round-​shoul­dered. But when Krum's name was an­nounced, the whole sta­di­um gave him a re­sound­ing, ear­split­ting roar.

And then came the Irish team. Aidan Lynch was be­ing sup­port­ed by Moran and Con­nol­ly; the sec­ond crash seemed to have dazed him and his eyes looked strange­ly un­fo­cused. But he grinned hap­pi­ly as Troy and Quigley lift­ed the Cup in­to the air and the crowd be­low thun­dered its ap­proval. Har­ry's hands were numb with clap­ping.

At last, when the Irish team had left the box to per­form an­oth­er lap of hon­or on their brooms (Aidan Lynch on the back of Con­fol­ly's, clutch­ing hard around his waist and still grin­ning in a be­mused sort of way), Bag­man point­ed his wand at his throat and mut­tered, “Qui­etus.”

“They'll be talk­ing about this one for years,” he said hoarse­ly, “a re­al­ly un­ex­pect­ed twist, that.…shame it couldn't have last­ed longer.…Ah yes…yes, I owe you.…how much?”

For Fred and George had just scram­bled over the backs of their seats and were stand­ing in front of Lu­do Bag­man with broad grins on their faces, their hands out­stretched.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER NINE


THE DARK MARK



“ D on't tell your moth­er you've been gam­bling,” Mr. Weasley im­plored Fred and George as they all made their way slow­ly down the pur­ple-​car­pet­ed stairs.

“Don't wor­ry, Dad,” said Fred glee­ful­ly, “we've got big plans for this mon­ey. We don't want it con­fis­cat­ed.”

Mr. Weasley looked for a mo­ment as though he was go­ing to ask what these big plans were, but seemed to de­cide, up­on re­flec­tion, that he didn't want to know.

They were soon caught up in the crowds now flood­ing out of the sta­di­um and back to their camp­sites. Rau­cous singing was borne to­ward them on the night air as they re­traced their steps along the lantern-​lit path, and lep­rechauns kept shoot­ing over their heads, cack­ling and wav­ing their lanterns. When they fi­nal­ly reached the tents, no­body felt like sleep­ing at all, and giv­en the lev­el of noise around them, Mr. Weasley agreed that they could all have one last cup of co­coa to­geth­er be­fore turn­ing in. They were soon ar­gu­ing en­joy­ably about the match; Mr. Weasley got drawn in­to a dis­agree­ment about cob­bing with Char­lie, and it was on­ly when Gin­ny fell asleep right at the tiny ta­ble and spilled hot choco­late all over the floor that Mr. Weasley called a halt to the ver­bal re­plays and in­sist­ed that ev­ery­one go to bed. Hermione and Gin­ny went in­to the next tent, and Har­ry and the rest of the Weasleys changed in­to pa­ja­mas and clam­bered in­to their bunks. From the oth­er side of the camp­site they could still hear much singing and the odd echo­ing bang.

“Oh I am glad I'm not on du­ty,” mut­tered Mr. Weasley sleep­ily. “I wouldn't fan­cy hav­ing to go and tell the Irish they've got to stop cel­ebrat­ing.”

Har­ry, who was on a top bunk above Ron, lay star­ing up at the can­vas ceil­ing of the tent, watch­ing the glow of an oc­ca­sion­al lep­rechaun lantern fly­ing over­head, and pic­tur­ing again some of Krum's more spec­tac­ular moves. He was itch­ing to get back on his own Fire­bolt and try out the Wron­ski Feint.…Some­how Oliv­er Wood had nev­er man­aged to con­vey with all his wrig­gling di­agrams what that move was sup­posed to look like.…Har­ry saw him­self in robes that had his name on the back, and imag­ined the sen­sa­tion of hear­ing a hun­dred-​thou­sand-​strong crowd roar, as Lu­do Bag­man's voice echoed through­out the sta­di­um, “I give you.…Pot­ter!”

Har­ry nev­er knew whether or not he had ac­tu­al­ly dropped off to sleep - his fan­tasies of fly­ing like Krum might well have slipped in­to ac­tu­al dreams - all he knew was that, quite sud­den­ly, Mr. Weasley was shout­ing.

“Get up! Ron - Har­ry - come on now, get up, this is ur­gent!”

Har­ry sat up quick­ly and the top of his head hit can­vas.

“'S' mat­ter?” he said.

Dim­ly, he could tell that some­thing was wrong. The nois­es in the camp­site had changed. The singing had stopped. He could hear screams, and the sound of peo­ple run­ning. He slipped down from the bunk and reached for his clothes, but Mr. Weasley, who had pulled on his jeans over his own pa­ja­mas, said, “No time, Har­ry - just grab a jack­et and get out­side - quick­ly!”

Har­ry did as he was told and hur­ried out of the tent, Ron at his heels.

By the light of the few fires that were still burn­ing, he could see peo­ple run­ning away in­to the woods, flee­ing some­thing that was mov­ing across the field to­ward them, some­thing that was emit­ting odd flash­es of light and nois­es like gun­fire. Loud jeer­ing, roars of laugh­ter, and drunk­en yells were drift­ing to­ward them; then came a burst of strong green light, which il­lu­mi­nat­ed the scene.

A crowd of wiz­ards, tight­ly packed and mov­ing to­geth­er with wands point­ing straight up­ward, was march­ing slow­ly across the field. Har­ry squint­ed at them.…They didn't seem to have faces.…Then he re­al­ized that their heads were hood­ed and their faces masked. High above them, float­ing along in midair, four strug­gling fig­ures were be­ing con­tort­ed in­to grotesque shapes. It was as though the masked wiz­ards on the ground were pup­peteers, and the peo­ple above them were mar­ionettes op­er­at­ed by in­vis­ible strings that rose from the wands in­to the air. Two of the fig­ures were very small.

More wiz­ards were join­ing the march­ing group, laugh­ing and point­ing up at the float­ing bod­ies. Tents crum­pled and fell as the march­ing crowd swelled. Once or twice Har­ry saw one of the marchers blast a tent out of his way with his wand. Sev­er­al caught fire. The scream­ing grew loud­er.

The float­ing peo­ple were sud­den­ly il­lu­mi­nat­ed as they passed over a burn­ing tent and Har­ry rec­og­nized one of them: Mr. Roberts, the camp­site man­ag­er. The oth­er three looked as though they might be his wife and chil­dren. One of the marchers be­low flipped Mrs. Roberts up­side down with his wand; her night­dress fell down to re­veal vo­lu­mi­nous draw­ers and she strug­gled to cov­er her­self up as the crowd be­low her screeched and hoot­ed with glee.

“That's sick,” Ron mut­tered, watch­ing the small­est Mug­gle child, who had be­gun to spin like a top, six­ty feet above the ground, his head flop­ping limply from side to side. “That is re­al­ly sick.…”

Hermione and Gin­ny came hur­ry­ing to­ward them, pulling coats over their night­dress­es, with Mr. Weasley right be­hind them. At the same mo­ment, Bill, Char­lie, and Per­cy emerged from the boys' tent, ful­ly dressed, with their sleeves rolled up and their wands out.

“We're go­ing to help the Min­istry!” Mr. Weasley shout­ed over all the noise, rolling up his own sleeves. “You lot - get in­to the woods, and stick to­geth­er. I'll come and fetch you when we've sort­ed this out!”

Bill, Char­lie, and Per­cy were al­ready sprint­ing away to­ward the on­com­ing marchers; Mr. Weasley tore af­ter them. Min­istry wiz­ards were dash­ing from ev­ery di­rec­tion to­ward the source of the trou­ble. The crowd be­neath the Roberts fam­ily was com­ing ev­er clos­er.

“C'mon,” said Fred, grab­bing Gin­ny's hand and start­ing to pull her to­ward the wood. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and George fol­lowed. They all looked back as they reached the trees. The crowd be­neath the Roberts fam­ily was larg­er than ev­er; they could see the Min­istry wiz­ards try­ing to get through it to the hood­ed wiz­ards in the cen­ter, but they were hav­ing great dif­fi­cul­ty. It looked as though they were scared to per­form any spell that might make the Roberts fam­ily fall.

The col­ored lanterns that had lit the path to the sta­di­um had been ex­tin­guished. Dark fig­ures were blun­der­ing through the trees; chil­dren were cry­ing; anx­ious shouts and pan­icked voic­es were re­ver­ber­at­ing around them in the cold night air. Har­ry felt him­self be­ing pushed hith­er and thith­er by peo­ple whose faces he could not see. Then he heard Ron yell with pain.

“What hap­pened?” said Hermione anx­ious­ly, stop­ping so abrupt­ly that Har­ry walked in­to her. “Ron, where are you? Oh this is stupid - lu­mos!”

She il­lu­mi­nat­ed her wand and di­rect­ed its nar­row beam across the path. Ron was ly­ing sprawled on the ground.

“Tripped over a tree root,” he said an­gri­ly, get­ting to his feet again.

“Well, with feet that size, hard not to,” said a drawl­ing voice from be­hind them.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione turned sharply. Dra­co Mal­foy was stand­ing alone near­by, lean­ing against a tree, look­ing ut­ter­ly re­laxed. His arms fold­ed, he seemed to have been watch­ing the scene at the camp­site through a gap in the trees.

Ron told Mal­foy to do some­thing that Har­ry knew he would nev­er have dared say in front of Mrs. Weasley.

“Lan­guage, Weasley,” said Mal­foy, his pale eyes glit­ter­ing. “Hadn't you bet­ter be hur­ry­ing along, now? You wouldn't like her spot­ted, would you?”

He nod­ded at Hermione, and at the same mo­ment, a blast like a bomb sound­ed from the camp­site, and a flash of green light mo­men­tar­ily lit the trees around them.

“What's that sup­posed to mean?” said Hermione de­fi­ant­ly.

“Granger, they're af­ter Mug­gles, ”said Mal­foy. “D'you want to be show­ing off your knick­ers in midair? Be­cause if you do, hang around.…they're mov­ing this way, and it would give us all a laugh.”

“Hermione's a witch,” Har­ry snarled.

“Have it your own way, Pot­ter,” said Mal­foy, grin­ning ma­li­cious­ly. “If you think they can't spot a Mud­blood, stay where you are.”

“You watch your mouth!” shout­ed Ron. Ev­ery­body present knew that “Mud­blood” was a very of­fen­sive term for a witch or wiz­ard of Mug­gle parent­age.

“Nev­er mind, Ron,” said Hermione quick­ly, seiz­ing Ron's arm to re­strain him as he took a step to­ward Mal­foy.

There came a bang from the oth­er side of the trees that was loud­er than any­thing they had heard. Sev­er­al peo­ple near­by screamed. Mal­foy chuck­led soft­ly.

“Scare eas­ily, don't they?” he said lazi­ly. “I sup­pose your dad­dy told you all to hide? What's he up to - try­ing to res­cue the Mug­gles?”

“Where're your par­ents?” said Har­ry, his tem­per ris­ing. “Out there wear­ing masks, are they?”

Mal­foy turned his face to Har­ry, still smil­ing.

“Well…if they were, I wouldn't be like­ly to tell you, would I, Pot­ter?”

“Oh come on,” said Hermione, with a dis­gust­ed look at Mal­foy, “let's go and find the oth­ers.”

“Keep that big bushy head down, Granger,” sneered Mal­foy.

“Come on,” Hermione re­peat­ed, and she pulled Har­ry and Ron up the path again.

“I'll bet you any­thing his dad is one of that masked lot!” said Ron hot­ly.

“Well, with any luck, the Min­istry will catch him!” said Hermione fer­vent­ly. “Oh I can't be­lieve this. Where have the oth­ers got to?”

Fred, George, and Gin­ny were nowhere to be seen, though the path was packed with plen­ty of oth­er peo­ple, all look­ing ner­vous­ly over their shoul­ders to­ward the com­mo­tion back at the camp­site. A hud­dle of teenagers in pa­ja­mas was ar­gu­ing vo­cif­er­ous­ly a lit­tle way along the path. When they saw Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, a girl with thick curly hair turned and said quick­ly, “Oü est Madame Maxime? Nous l'avons per­due -”

“Er - what?” said Ron.

“Oh…” The girl who had spo­ken turned her back on him, and as they walked on they dis­tinct­ly heard her say, “'Og­warts.”

“Beaux­ba­tons,” mut­tered Hermione.

“Sor­ry?” said Har­ry.

“They must go to Beaux­ba­tons,” said Hermione. “You know…Beaux­ba­tons Acade­my of Mag­ic.…I read about it in An Ap­praisal of Mag­ical Ed­uca­tion in Eu­rope.”

“Oh…yeah…right,” said Har­ry.

“Fred and George can't have gone that far,” said Ron, pulling out his wand, light­ing it like Hermione's, and squint­ing up the path. Har­ry dug in the pock­ets of his jack­et for his own wand - but it wasn't there. The on­ly thing he could find was his Om­nioc­ulars.

“Ah, no, I don't be­lieve it…I've lost my wand!”

“You're kid­ding!”

Ron and Hermione raised their wands high enough to spread the nar­row beams of light far­ther on the ground; Har­ry looked all around him, but his wand was nowhere to be seen.

“Maybe it's back in the tent,” said Ron.

“Maybe it fell out of your pock­et when we were run­ning?” Hermione sug­gest­ed anx­ious­ly.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “maybe…”

He usu­al­ly kept his wand with him at all times in the wiz­ard­ing world, and find­ing him­self with­out it in the midst of a scene like this made him feel very vul­ner­able.

A rustling noise near­by made all three of them jump. Winky the house-​elf was fight­ing her way out of a clump of bush­es near­by. She was mov­ing in a most pe­cu­liar fash­ion, ap­par­ent­ly with great dif­fi­cul­ty; it was as though some­one in­vis­ible were try­ing to hold her back.

“There is bad wiz­ards about!” she squeaked dis­tract­ed­ly as she leaned for­ward and la­bored to keep run­ning. “Peo­ple high - high in the air! Winky is get­ting out of the way!”

And she dis­ap­peared in­to the trees on the oth­er side of the path, pant­ing and squeak­ing as she fought the force that was re­strain­ing her.

“What's up with her?” said Ron, look­ing cu­ri­ous­ly af­ter Winky. “Why can't she run prop­er­ly?”

“Bet she didn't ask per­mis­sion to hide,” said Har­ry. He was think­ing of Dob­by: Ev­ery time he had tried to do some­thing the Mal­foys wouldn't like, the house-​elf had been forced to start beat­ing him­self up.

“You know, house-​elves get a very raw deal!” said Hermione in­dig­nant­ly. “It's slav­ery, that's what it is! That Mr. Crouch made her go up to the top of the sta­di­um, and she was ter­ri­fied, and he's got her be­witched so she can't even run when they start tram­pling tents! Why doesn't any­one do some­thing about it?”

“Well, the elves are hap­py, aren't they?” Ron said. “You heard old Winky back at the match…'House-​elves is not sup­posed to have fun'…that's what she likes, be­ing bossed around.…”

“It's peo­ple like you, Ron,” Hermione be­gan hot­ly, “who prop up rot­ten and un­just sys­tems, just be­cause they're too lazy to -”

An­oth­er loud bang echoed from the edge of the wood.

“Let's just keep mov­ing, shall we?” said Ron, and Har­ry saw him glance edg­ily at Hermione. Per­haps there was truth in what Mal­foy had said; per­haps Hermione was in more dan­ger than they were. They set off again, Har­ry still search­ing his pock­ets, even though he knew his wand wasn't there.

They fol­lowed the dark path deep­er in­to the wood, still keep­ing an eye out for Fred, George, and Gin­ny. They passed a group of gob­lins who were cack­ling over a sack of gold that they had un­doubt­ed­ly won bet­ting on the match, and who seemed quite un­per­turbed by the trou­ble at the camp­site. Far­ther still along the path, they walked in­to a patch of sil­very light, and when they looked through the trees, they saw three tall and beau­ti­ful veela stand­ing in a clear­ing, sur­round­ed by a gag­gle of young wiz­ards, all of whom were talk­ing very loud­ly.

“I pull down about a hun­dred sacks of Galleons a year!” one of them shout­ed. “I'm a drag­on killer for the Com­mit­tee for the Dis­pos­al of Dan­ger­ous Crea­tures.”

“No, you're not!” yelled his friend. “You're a dish­wash­er at the Leaky Caul­dron…but I'm a vam­pire hunter, I've killed about nine­ty so far -”

A third young wiz­ard, whose pim­ples were vis­ible even by the dim, sil­very light of the veela, now cut in, “I'm about to be­come the youngest ev­er Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, I am.”

Har­ry snort­ed with laugh­ter. He rec­og­nized the pim­ply wiz­ard: His name was Stan Shun­pike, and he was in fact a con­duc­tor on the triple-​deck­er Knight Bus. He turned to tell Ron this, but Ron's face had gone odd­ly slack, and next sec­ond Ron was yelling, “Did I tell you I've in­vent­ed a broom­stick that'll reach Jupiter?”

“Hon­est­ly!” said Hermione, and she and Har­ry grabbed Ron firm­ly by the arms, wheeled him around, and marched him away. By the time the sounds of the veela and their ad­mir­ers had fad­ed com­plete­ly, they were in the very heart of the wood. They seemed to be alone now; ev­ery­thing was much qui­eter.

Har­ry looked around. “I reck­on we can just wait here, you know. We'll hear any­one com­ing a mile off.”

The words were hard­ly out of his mouth, when Lu­do Bag­man emerged from be­hind a tree right ahead of them.

Even by the fee­ble light of the two wands, Har­ry could see that a great change had come over Bag­man. He no longer looked buoy­ant and rosy-​faced; there was no more spring in his step. He looked very white and strained.

“Who's that?” he said, blink­ing down at them, try­ing to make out their faces. “What are you do­ing in here, all alone?”

They looked at one an­oth­er, sur­prised.

“Well - there's a sort of ri­ot go­ing on,” said Ron.

Bag­man stared at him.

“What?”

“At the camp­site…some peo­ple have got hold of a fam­ily of Mug­gles.…”

Bag­man swore loud­ly.

“Damn them!” he said, look­ing quite dis­tract­ed, and with­out an­oth­er word, he Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed with a small pop!

“Not ex­act­ly on top of things, Mr. Bag­man, is he?” said Hermione, frown­ing.

“He was a great Beat­er, though,” said Ron, lead­ing the way off the path in­to a small clear­ing, and sit­ting down on a patch of dry grass at the foot of a tree. “The Wim­bourne Wasps won the league three times in a row while he was with them.”

He took his small fig­ure of Krum out of his pock­et, set it down on the ground, and watched it walk around. Like the re­al Krum, the mod­el was slight­ly duck-​foot­ed and round-​shoul­dered, much less im­pres­sive on his splayed feet than on his broom­stick. Har­ry was lis­ten­ing for noise from the camp­site. Ev­ery­thing seemed much qui­eter; per­haps the ri­ot was over.

“I hope the oth­ers are okay,” said Hermione af­ter a while.

“They'll be fine,” said Ron.

“Imag­ine if your dad catch­es Lu­cius Mal­foy,” said Har­ry, sit­ting down next to Ron and watch­ing the small fig­ure of Krum slouch­ing over the fall­en leaves. “He's al­ways said he'd like to get some­thing on him.”

“That'd wipe the smirk off old Dra­co's face, all right,” said Ron.

“Those poor Mug­gles, though,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly. “What if they can't get them down?”

“They will,” said Ron re­as­sur­ing­ly. “They'll find a way.”

“Mad, though, to do some­thing like that when the whole Min­istry of Mag­ic's out here tonight!” said Hermione. “I mean, how do they ex­pect to get away with it? Do you think they've been drink­ing, or are they just -”

But she broke off abrupt­ly and looked over her shoul­der. Har­ry and Ron looked quick­ly around too. It sound­ed as though some­one was stag­ger­ing to­ward their clear­ing. They wait­ed, lis­ten­ing to the sounds of the un­even steps be­hind the dark trees. But the foot­steps came to a sud­den halt.

“Hel­lo?” called Har­ry.

There was si­lence. Har­ry got to his feet and peered around the tree. It was too dark to see very far, but he could sense some­body stand­ing just be­yond the range of his vi­sion.

“Who's there?” he said.

And then, with­out warn­ing, the si­lence was rent by a voice un­like any they had heard in the wood; and it ut­tered, not a pan­icked shout, but what sound­ed like a spell.

“MORSMOR­DRE!”

And some­thing vast, green, and glit­ter­ing erupt­ed from the patch of dark­ness Har­ry's eyes had been strug­gling to pen­etrate; it flew up over the tree­tops and in­to the sky.

“What the -?” gasped Ron as he sprang to his feet again, star­ing up at the thing that had ap­peared.

For a split sec­ond, Har­ry thought it was an­oth­er lep­rechaun for­ma­tion. Then he re­al­ized that it was a colos­sal skull, com­prised of what looked like emer­ald stars, with a ser­pent pro­trud­ing from its mouth like a tongue. As they watched, it rose high­er and high­er, blaz­ing in a haze of green­ish smoke, etched against the black sky like a new con­stel­la­tion.

Sud­den­ly, the wood all around them erupt­ed with screams. Har­ry didn't un­der­stand why, but the on­ly pos­si­ble cause was the sud­den ap­pear­ance of the skull, which had now risen high enough to il­lu­mi­nate the en­tire wood like some gris­ly neon sign. He scanned the dark­ness for the per­son who had con­jured the skull, but he couldn't see any­one.

“Who's there?” he called again.

“Har­ry, come on, move!” Hermione had seized the col­lar of his jack­et and was tug­ging him back­ward.

“What's the mat­ter?” Har­ry said, star­tled to see her face so white and ter­ri­fied.

“It's the Dark Mark, Har­ry!” Hermione moaned, pulling him as hard as she could. “You-​Know-​Who's sign!”

“Volde­mort's - ?”

“Har­ry, come on!”

Har­ry turned - Ron was hur­ried­ly scoop­ing up his minia­ture Krum - the three of them start­ed across the clear­ing - but be­fore they had tak­en a few hur­ried steps, a se­ries of pop­ping nois­es an­nounced the ar­rival of twen­ty wiz­ards, ap­pear­ing from thin air, sur­round­ing them.

Har­ry whirled around, and in an in­stant, he reg­is­tered one fact: Each of these wiz­ards had his wand out, and ev­ery wand was point­ing right at him­self, Ron, and Hermione.

With­out paus­ing to think, he yelled, “DUCK!”

He seized the oth­er two and pulled them down on­to the ground.

“STU­PE­FY!” roared twen­ty voic­es - there was a blind­ing se­ries of flash­es and Har­ry felt the hair on his head rip­ple as though a pow­er­ful wind had swept the clear­ing. Rais­ing his head a frac­tion of an inch he saw jets of fiery red light fly­ing over them from the wiz­ards' wands, cross­ing one an­oth­er, bounc­ing off tree trunks, re­bound­ing in­to the dark­ness -

“Stop!” yelled a voice he rec­og­nized. “STOP! That's my son!”

Har­ry's hair stopped blow­ing about. He raised his head a lit­tle high­er. The wiz­ard in front of him had low­ered his wand. He rolled over and saw Mr. Weasley strid­ing to­ward them, look­ing ter­ri­fied.

“Ron - Har­ry” - his voice sound­ed shaky - “Hermione - are you all right?”

“Out of the way, Arthur,” said a cold, curt voice.

It was Mr. Crouch. He and the oth­er Min­istry wiz­ards were clos­ing in on them. Har­ry got to his feet to face them. Mr. Crouch's face was taut with rage.

“Which of you did it?” he snapped, his sharp eyes dart­ing be­tween them. “Which of you con­jured the Dark Mark?”

“We didn't do that!” said Har­ry, ges­tur­ing up at the skull.

“We didn't do any­thing!” said Ron, who was rub­bing his el­bow and look­ing in­dig­nant­ly at his fa­ther. “What did you want to at­tack us for?”

“Do not lie, sir!” shout­ed Mr. Crouch. His wand was still point­ing di­rect­ly at Ron, and his eyes were pop­ping - he looked slight­ly mad. “You have been dis­cov­ered at the scene of the crime!”

“Bar­ty,” whis­pered a witch in a long woolen dress­ing gown, “they're kids, Bar­ty, they'd nev­er have been able to -”

“Where did the Mark come from, you three?” said Mr. Weasley quick­ly.

“Over there,” said Hermione shak­ily, point­ing at the place where they had heard the voice. “There was some­one be­hind the trees…they shout­ed words - an in­can­ta­tion -”

“Oh, stood over there, did they?” said Mr. Crouch, turn­ing his pop­ping eyes on Hermione now, dis­be­lief etched all over his face. “Said an in­can­ta­tion, did they? You seem very well in­formed about how that Mark is sum­moned, mis­sy -”

But none of the Min­istry wiz­ards apart from Mr. Crouch seemed to think it re­mote­ly like­ly that Har­ry, Ron, or Hermione had con­jured the skull; on the con­trary, at Hermione's words, they had all raised their wands again and were point­ing in the di­rec­tion she had in­di­cat­ed, squint­ing through the dark trees.

“We're too late,” said the witch in the woolen dress­ing gown, shak­ing her head. “They'll have Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.”

“I don't think so,” said a wiz­ard with a scrub­by brown beard. It was Amos Dig­gory, Cedric's fa­ther. “Our Stun­ners went right through those trees.…There's a good chance we got them.…”

“Amos, be care­ful!” said a few of the wiz­ards warn­ing­ly as Mr. Dig­gory squared his shoul­ders, raised his wand, marched across the clear­ing, and dis­ap­peared in­to the dark­ness. Hermione watched him van­ish with her hands over her mouth.

A few sec­onds lat­er, they heard Mr. Dig­gory shout.

“Yes! We got them! There's some­one here! Un­con­scious! It's - but - blimey…”

“You've got some­one?” shout­ed Mr. Crouch, sound­ing high­ly dis­be­liev­ing. “Who? Who is it?”

They heard snap­ping twigs, the rustling of leaves, and then crunch­ing foot­steps as Mr. Dig­gory reemerged from be­hind the trees. He was car­ry­ing a tiny, limp fig­ure in his arms. Har­ry rec­og­nized the tea tow­el at once. It was Winky.

Mr. Crouch did not move or speak as Mr. Dig­gory de­posit­ed his elf on the ground at his feet. The oth­er Min­istry wiz­ards were all star­ing at Mr. Crouch. For a few sec­onds Crouch re­mained trans­fixed, his eyes blaz­ing in his white face as he stared down at Winky. Then he ap­peared to come to life again.

“This - can­not - be,” he said jerk­ily. “No -”

He moved quick­ly around Mr. Dig­gory and strode off to­ward the place where he had found Winky.

“No point, Mr. Crouch,” Mr. Dig­gory called af­ter him. “There's no one else there.”

But Mr. Crouch did not seem pre­pared to take his word for it. They could hear him mov­ing around and the rustling of leaves as he pushed the bush­es aside, search­ing.

“Bit em­bar­rass­ing,” Mr. Dig­gory said grim­ly, look­ing down at Winky's un­con­scious form. “Bar­ty Crouch's house-​elf.…I mean to say…”

“Come off it, Amos,” said Mr. Weasley qui­et­ly, “you don't se­ri­ous­ly think it was the elf? The Dark Mark's a wiz­ard's sign. It re­quires a wand.”

“Yeah,” said Mr. Dig­gory, “and she had a wand.”

“What?” said Mr. Weasley.

“Here, look.” Mr. Dig­gory held up a wand and showed it to Mr. Weasley. “Had it in her hand. So that's clause three of the Code of Wand Use bro­ken, for a start. No non-​hu­man crea­ture is per­mit­ted to car­ry or use a wand.”

Just then there was an­oth­er pop, and Lu­do Bag­man Ap­pa­rat­ed right next to Mr. Weasley. Look­ing breath­less and dis­ori­en­tat­ed, he spun on the spot, gog­gling up­ward at the emer­ald-​green skull.

“The Dark Mark!” he pant­ed, al­most tram­pling Winky as he turned in­quir­ing­ly to his col­leagues. “Who did it? Did you get them? Bar­ry! What's go­ing on?”

Mr. Crouch had re­turned emp­ty-​hand­ed. His face was still ghost­ly white, and his hands and his tooth­brush mus­tache were both twitch­ing.

“Where have you been, Bar­ty?” said Bag­man. “Why weren't you at the match? Your elf was sav­ing you a seat too - gulp­ing gar­goyles!” Bag­man had just no­ticed Winky ly­ing at his feet. “What hap­pened to her?”

“I have been busy, Lu­do,” said Mr. Crouch, still talk­ing in the same jerky fash­ion, bare­ly mov­ing his lips. “And my elf has been stunned.”

“Stunned? By you lot, you mean? But why -?”

Com­pre­hen­sion dawned sud­den­ly on Bag­man's round, shiny face; he looked up at the skull, down at Winky, and then at Mr. Crouch.

“No!” he said. “Winky? Con­jure the Dark Mark? She wouldn't know how! She'd need a wand, for a start!”

“And she had one,” said Mr. Dig­gory. “I found her hold­ing one, Lu­do. If it's all right with you, Mr. Crouch, I think we should hear what she's got to say for her­self.”

Crouch gave no sign that he had heard Mr. Dig­gory, but Mr. Dig­gory seemed to take his si­lence for as­sent. He raised his own wand, point­ed it at Winky, and said, “En­ner­vate!”

Winky stirred fee­bly. Her great brown eyes opened and she blinked sev­er­al times in a be­mused sort of way. Watched by the silent wiz­ards, she raised her­self shak­ily in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion.

She caught sight of Mr. Dig­gory's feet, and slow­ly, tremu­lous­ly, raised her eyes to stare up in­to his face; then, more slow­ly still, she looked up in­to the sky. Har­ry could see the float­ing skull re­flect­ed twice in her enor­mous, glassy eyes. She gave a gasp, looked wild­ly around the crowd­ed clear­ing, and burst in­to ter­ri­fied sobs.

“Elf!” said Mr. Dig­gory stern­ly. “Do you know who I am? I'm a mem­ber of the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures!”

Winky be­gan to rock back­ward and for­ward on the ground, her breath com­ing in sharp bursts. Har­ry was re­mind­ed forcibly of Dob­by in his mo­ments of ter­ri­fied dis­obe­di­ence.

“As you see, elf, the Dark Mark was con­jured here a short while ago,” said Mr. Dig­gory. “And you were dis­cov­ered mo­ments lat­er, right be­neath it! An ex­pla­na­tion, if you please!”

“I - I - I is not do­ing it, sir!” Winky gasped. “I is not know­ing how, sir!”

“You were found with a wand in your hand!” barked Mr. Dig­gory, bran­dish­ing it in front of her. And as the wand caught the green light that was fill­ing the clear­ing from the skull above, Har­ry rec­og­nized it

“Hey - that's mine!” he said

Ev­ery­one in the clear­ing looked at him.

“Ex­cuse me?” said Mr. Dig­gory, in­cred­ulous­ly.

“That's my wand!” said Har­ry. “I dropped it!”

“You dropped it?” re­peat­ed Mr. Dig­gory in dis­be­lief. “Is this a con­fes­sion? You threw it aside af­ter you con­jured the Mark?”

“Amos, think who you're talk­ing to!” said Mr. Weasley, very an­gri­ly. “Is Har­ry Pot­ter like­ly to con­jure the Dark Mark?”

“Er - of course not,” mum­bled Mr. Dig­gory. “Sor­ry…car­ried away…”

“I didn't drop it there, any­way,” said Har­ry, jerk­ing his thumb to­ward the trees be­neath the skull. “I missed it right af­ter we got in­to the wood.”

“So,” said Mr. Dig­gory, his eyes hard­en­ing as he turned to look at Winky again, cow­er­ing at his feet. “You found this wand, eh, elf? And you picked it up and thought you'd have some fun with it, did you?”

“I is not do­ing mag­ic with it, sir!” squealed Winky, tears stream­ing down the sides of her squashed and bul­bous nose. “I is…I is…I is just pick­ing it up, sir! I is not mak­ing the Dark Mark, sir, I is not know­ing how!”

“It wasn't her!” said Hermione. She looked very ner­vous, speak­ing up in front of all these Min­istry wiz­ards, yet de­ter­mined all the same. “Winky's got a squeaky lit­tle voice, and the voice we heard do­ing the in­can­ta­tion was much deep­er!” She looked around at Har­ry and Ron, ap­peal­ing for their sup­port. “It didn't sound any­thing like Winky, did it?”

“No,” said Har­ry, shak­ing his head. “It def­inite­ly didn't sound like an elf.”

“Yeah, it was a hu­man voice,” said Ron.

“Well, we'll soon see,” growled Mr. Dig­gory, look­ing unim­pressed. “There's a sim­ple way of dis­cov­er­ing the last spell a wand per­formed, elf, did you know that?”

Winky trem­bled and shook her head fran­ti­cal­ly, her ears flap­ping, as Mr. Dig­gory raised his own wand again and placed it tip to tip with Har­ry's.

“Pri­or In­can­ta­to!” roared Mr. Dig­gory.

Har­ry heard Hermione gasp, hor­ri­fied, as a gi­gan­tic ser­pent-​tongued skull erupt­ed from the point where the two wands met, but it was a mere shad­ow of the green skull high above them; it looked as though it were made of thick gray smoke: the ghost of a spell.

“Deletrius!” Mr. Dig­gory shout­ed, and the smoky skull van­ished in a wisp of smoke.

“So,” said Mr. Dig­gory with a kind of sav­age tri­umph, look­ing down up­on Winky, who was still shak­ing con­vul­sive­ly.

“I is not do­ing it!” she squealed, her eyes rolling in ter­ror. “I is not, I is not, I is not know­ing how! I is a good elf, I isn't us­ing wands, I isn't know­ing how!”

“You've been caught red-​hand­ed, elf!” Mr. Dig­gory roared. “Caught with the guilty wand in your hand!”

“Amos,” said Mr. Weasley loud­ly, “think about it…pre­cious few wiz­ards know how to do that spell.…Where would she have learned it?”

“Per­haps Amos is sug­gest­ing,” said Mr. Crouch, cold anger in ev­ery syl­la­ble, “that I rou­tine­ly teach my ser­vants to con­jure the Dark Mark?”

There was a deeply un­pleas­ant si­lence. Amos Dig­gory looked hor­ri­fied. "Mr. Crouch…not…not at all.

“You have now come very close to ac­cus­ing the two peo­ple in this clear­ing who are least like­ly to con­jure that Mark!” barked Mr. Crouch. “Har­ry Pot­ter - and my­self. I sup­pose you are fa­mil­iar with the boy's sto­ry, Amos?”

“Of course - ev­ery­one knows -” mut­tered Mr. Dig­gory, look­ing high­ly dis­com­fort­ed.

“And I trust you re­mem­ber the many proofs I have giv­en, over a long ca­reer, that I de­spise and de­test the Dark Arts and those who prac­tice them?” Mr. Crouch shout­ed, his eyes bulging again.

“Mr. Crouch, I - I nev­er sug­gest­ed you had any­thing to do with it!” Amos Dig­gory mut­tered again, now red­den­ing be­hind his scrub­by brown beard.

“If you ac­cuse my elf, you ac­cuse me, Dig­gory!” shout­ed Mr. Crouch. “Where else would she have learned to con­jure it?”

“She - she might've picked it up any­where -”

“Pre­cise­ly, Amos,” said Mr. Weasley. “She might have picked it up any­where.…Winky?” he said kind­ly, turn­ing to the elf, but she flinched as though he too was shout­ing at her. “Where ex­act­ly did you find Har­ry's wand?”

Winky was twist­ing the hem of her tea tow­el so vi­olent­ly that it was fray­ing be­neath her fin­gers.

“I - I is find­ing it…find­ing it there, sir…” she whis­pered, "there…in the trees, sir.

“You see, Amos?” said Mr. Weasley. “Who­ev­er con­jured the Mark could have Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed right af­ter they'd done it, leav­ing Har­ry's wand be­hind. A clever thing to do, not us­ing their own wand, which could have be­trayed them. And Winky here had the mis­for­tune to come across the wand mo­ments lat­er and pick it up.”

“But then, she'd have been on­ly a few feet away from the re­al cul­prit!” said Mr. Dig­gory im­pa­tient­ly. “Elf? Did you see any­one?”

Winky be­gan to trem­ble worse than ev­er. Her gi­ant eyes flick­ered from Mr. Dig­gory, to Lu­do Bag­man, and on­to Mr. Crouch. Then she gulped and said, “I is see­ing no one, sir…no one…”

“Amos,” said Mr. Crouch curt­ly, “I am ful­ly aware that, in the or­di­nary course of events, you would want to take Winky in­to your de­part­ment for ques­tion­ing. I ask you, how­ev­er, to al­low me to deal with her.”

Mr. Dig­gory looked as though he didn't think much of this sug­ges­tion at all, but it was clear to Har­ry that Mr. Crouch was such an im­por­tant mem­ber of the Min­istry that he did not dare refuse him.

“You may rest as­sured that she will be pun­ished,” Mr. Crouch added cold­ly.

“M-​m-​mas­ter…” Winky stam­mered, look­ing up at Mr. Crouch, her eyes brim­ming with tears. “M-​m-​mas­ter, p-​p-​please…”

Mr. Crouch stared back, his face some­how sharp­ened, each line up­on it more deeply etched. There was no pity in his gaze.

“Winky has be­haved tonight in a man­ner I would not have be­lieved pos­si­ble,” he said slow­ly. “I told her to re­main in the tent. I told her to stay there while I went to sort out the trou­ble. And I find that she dis­obeyed me. This means clothes.”

“No!” shrieked Winky, pros­trat­ing her­self at Mr. Crouch's feet. “No, mas­ter! Not clothes, not clothes!”

Har­ry knew that the on­ly way to turn a house-​elf free was to present it with prop­er gar­ments. It was piti­ful to see the way Winky clutched at her tea tow­el as she sobbed over Mr. Crouch's feet.

“But she was fright­ened!” Hermione burst out an­gri­ly, glar­ing at Mr. Crouch. “Your elf's scared of heights, and those wiz­ards in masks were lev­itat­ing peo­ple! You can't blame her for want­ing to get out of their way!”

Mr. Crouch took a step back­ward, free­ing him­self from con­tact with the elf, whom he was sur­vey­ing as though she were some­thing filthy and rot­ten that was con­tam­inat­ing his over-​shined shoes.

“I have no use for a house-​elf who dis­obeys me,” he said cold­ly, look­ing over at Hermione. “I have no use for a ser­vant who for­gets what is due to her mas­ter, and to her mas­ter's rep­uta­tion.”

Winky was cry­ing so hard that her sobs echoed around the clear­ing. There was a very nasty si­lence, which was end­ed by Mr. Weasley, who said qui­et­ly, “Well, I think I'll take my lot back to the tent, if no­body's got any ob­jec­tions. Amos, that wand's told us all it can - if Har­ry could have it back, please -”

Mr. Dig­gory hand­ed Har­ry his wand and Har­ry pock­et­ed it.

“Come on, you three,” Mr. Weasley said qui­et­ly. But Hermione didn't seem to want to move; her eyes were still up­on the sob­bing elf. “Hermione!” Mr. Weasley said, more ur­gent­ly. She turned and fol­lowed Har­ry and Ron out of the clear­ing and off through the trees.

“What's go­ing to hap­pen to Winky?” said Hermione, the mo­ment they had left the clear­ing.

“I don't know,” said Mr. Weasley.

“The way they were treat­ing her!” said Hermione fu­ri­ous­ly. “Mr. Dig­gory, call­ing her 'elf' all the time…and Mr. Crouch! He knows she didn't do it and he's still go­ing to sack her! He didn't care how fright­ened she'd been, or how up­set she was - it was like she wasn't even hu­man!”

“Well, she's not,” said Ron.

Hermione round­ed on him.

“That doesn't mean she hasn't got feel­ings, Ron. It's dis­gust­ing the way -”

“Hermione, I agree with you,” said Mr. Weasley quick­ly, beck­on­ing her on, “but now is not the time to dis­cuss elf rights. I want to get back to the tent as fast as we can. What hap­pened to the oth­ers?”

“We lost them in the dark,” said Ron. “Dad, why was ev­ery­one so up­tight about that skull thing?”

“I'll ex­plain ev­ery­thing back at the tent,” said Mr. Weasley tense­ly.

But when they reached the edge of the wood, their progress was im­ped­ed. A large crowd of fright­ened-​look­ing witch­es and wiz­ards was con­gre­gat­ed there, and when they saw Mr. Weasley com­ing to­ward them, many of them surged for­ward.

“What's go­ing on in there?”

“Who con­jured it?”

“Arthur - it's not - Him?”

“Of course it's not Him,” said Mr. Weasley im­pa­tient­ly. “We don't know who it was; it looks like they Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed. Now ex­cuse me, please, I want to get to bed.”

He led Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione through the crowd and back in­to the camp­site. All was qui­et now; there was no sign of the masked wiz­ards, though sev­er­al ru­ined tents were still smok­ing.

Char­lie's head was pok­ing out of the boys' tent.

“Dad, what's go­ing on?” he called through the dark. “Fred, George, and Gin­ny got back okay, but the oth­ers -”

“I've got them here,” said Mr. Weasley, bend­ing down and en­ter­ing the tent. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione en­tered af­ter him.

Bill was sit­ting at the small kitchen ta­ble, hold­ing a bed­sheet to his arm, which was bleed­ing pro­fuse­ly. Char­lie had a large rip in his shirt, and Per­cy was sport­ing a bloody nose. Fred, George, and Gin­ny looked un­hurt, though shak­en.

“Did you get them, Dad?” said Bill sharply. “The per­son who con­jured the Mark?”

“No,” said Mr. Weasley. “We found Bar­ry Crouch's elf hold­ing Har­ry's wand, but we're none the wis­er about who ac­tu­al­ly conured the Mark.”

“What?” said Bill, Char­lie, and Per­cy to­geth­er.

“Har­ry's wand?” said Fred.

“Mr. Crouch's elf?” said Per­cy, sound­ing thun­der­struck.

With some as­sis­tance from Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, Mr. Weasley ex­plained what had hap­pened in the woods. When they had fin­ished their sto­ry, Per­cy swelled in­dig­nant­ly.

“Well, Mr. Crouch is quite right to get rid of an elf like that!” he said. “Run­ning away when he'd ex­press­ly told her not to…em­bar­rass­ing him in front of the whole Min­istry…how would that have looked, if she'd been brought up in front of the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol -”

“She didn't do any­thing - she was just in the wrong place at the wrong time!” Hermione snapped at Per­cy, who looked very tak­en aback. Hermione had al­ways got on fair­ly well with Per­cy - bet­ter, in­deed, than any of the oth­ers.

“Hermione, a wiz­ard in Mr. Crouch's po­si­tion can't af­ford a house-​elf who's go­ing to run amok with a wand!” said Per­cy pompous­ly, re­cov­er­ing him­self.

“She didn't run amok!” shout­ed Hermione. “She just picked it up off the ground!”

“Look, can some­one just ex­plain what that skull thing was?” said Ron im­pa­tient­ly. “It wasn't hurt­ing any­one.…Why's it such a big deal?”

“I told you, it's You-​Know-​Who's sym­bol, Ron,” said Hermione, be­fore any­one else could an­swer. “I read about it in The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts.”

“And it hasn't been seen for thir­teen years,” said Mr. Weasley qui­et­ly. “Of course peo­ple pan­icked…it was al­most like see­ing You-​Know-​Who back again.”

“I don't get it,” said Ron, frown­ing. “I mean…it's still on­ly a shape in the sky…”

“Ron, You-​Know-​Who and his fol­low­ers sent the Dark Mark in­to the air when­ev­er they killed,” said Mr. Weasley. “The ter­ror it in­spired…you have no idea, you're too young. Just pic­ture com­ing home and find­ing the Dark Mark hov­er­ing over your house, and know­ing what you're about to find in­side.…” Mr. Weasley winced. “Ev­ery­one's worst fear…the very worst…”

There was si­lence for a mo­ment. Then Bill, re­mov­ing the sheet from his arm to check on his cut, said, “Well, it didn't help us tonight, who­ev­er con­jured it. It scared the Death Eaters away the mo­ment they saw it. They all Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed be­fore we'd got near enough to un­mask any of them. We caught the Robert­ses be­fore they hit the ground, though. They're hav­ing their mem­ories mod­ified right now.”

“Death Eaters?” said Har­ry. “What are Death Eaters?”

“It's what You-​Know-​Who's sup­port­ers called them­selves,” said Bill. “I think we saw what's left of them tonight - the ones who man­aged to keep them­selves out of Azk­aban, any­way.”

“We can't prove it was them, Bill,” said Mr. Weasley. “Though it prob­ably was,” he added hope­less­ly.

“Yeah, I bet it was!” said Ron sud­den­ly . “Dad, we met Dra­co Mal­foy in the woods, and he as good as told us his dad was one of those nut­ters in masks! And we all know the Mal­foys were right in with You-​Know-​Who!”

“But what were Volde­mort's sup­port­ers -” Har­ry be­gan. Ev­ery­body flinched - like most of the wiz­ard­ing world, the Weasleys al­ways avoid­ed say­ing Volde­mort's name. “Sor­ry,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “What were You-​Know-​Who's sup­port­ers up to, lev­itat­ing Mug­gles? I mean, what was the point?”

“The point?” said Mr. Weasley with a hol­low laugh. “Har­ry, that's their idea of fun. Half the Mug­gle killings back when You-​Know-​Who was in pow­er were done for fun. I sup­pose they had a few drinks tonight and couldn't re­sist re­mind­ing us all that lots of them are still at large. A nice lit­tle re­union for them,” he fin­ished dis­gust­ed­ly.

“But if they were the Death Eaters, why did they Dis­ap­pa­rate when they saw the Dark Mark?” said Ron. “They'd have been pleased to see it, wouldn't they?”

“Use your brains, Ron,” said Bill. “If they re­al­ly were Death Eaters, they worked very hard to keep out of Azk­aban when You-​Know-​Who lost pow­er, and told all sorts of lies about him forc­ing them to kill and tor­ture peo­ple. I bet they'd be even more fright­ened than the rest of us to see him come back. They de­nied they'd ev­er been in­volved with him when he lost his pow­ers, and went back to their dai­ly lives.…I don't reck­on he'd be over-​pleased with them, do you?”

“So…who­ev­er con­jured the Dark Mark…” said Hermione slow­ly, “were they do­ing it to show sup­port for the Death Eaters, or to scare them away?”

“Your guess is as good as ours, Hermione,” said Mr. Weasley. “But I'll tell you this…it was on­ly the Death Eaters who ev­er knew how to con­jure it. I'd be very sur­prised if the per­son who did it hadn't been a Death Eater once, even if they're not now.…Lis­ten, it's very late, and if your moth­er hears what's hap­pened she'll be wor­ried sick. We'll get a few more hours sleep and then try and get an ear­ly Portkey out of here.”

Har­ry got back in­to his bunk with his head buzzing. He knew he ought to feel ex­haust­ed: It was near­ly three in the morn­ing, but he felt wide-​awake - wide-​awake, and wor­ried.

Three days ago - it felt like much longer, but it had on­ly been three days - he had awo­ken with his scar burn­ing. And tonight, for the first time in thir­teen years, Lord Volde­mort's mark had ap­peared in the sky. What did these things mean?

He thought of the let­ter he had writ­ten to Sir­ius be­fore leav­ing Priv­et Drive. Would Sir­ius have got­ten it yet? When would he re­ply? Har­ry lay look­ing up at the can­vas, but no fly­ing fan­tasies came to him now to ease him to sleep, and it was a long time af­ter Char­lie's snores filled the tent that Har­ry fi­nal­ly dozed off.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TEN


MAY­HEM AT THE MIN­ISTRY



M r. Weasley woke them af­ter on­ly a few hours sleep. He used mag­ic to pack up the tents, and they left the camp­site as quick­ly as pos­si­ble, pass­ing Mr. Roberts at the door of his cot­tage. Mr. Roberts had a strange, dazed look about him, and he waved them off with a vague “Mer­ry Christ­mas.”

“He'll be all right,” said Mr. Weasley qui­et­ly as they marched off on­to the moor. “Some­times, when a per­son's mem­ory's mod­ified, it makes him a bit dis­ori­en­tat­ed for a while…and that was a big thing they had to make him for­get.”

They heard ur­gent voic­es as they ap­proached the spot where the Portkeys lay, and when they reached it, they found a great num­ber of witch­es and wiz­ards gath­ered around Basil, the keep­er of the Portkeys, all clam­or­ing to get away from the camp­site as quick­ly as pos­si­ble. Mr. Weasley had a hur­ried dis­cus­sion with Basil; they joined the queue, and were able to take an old rub­ber tire back to Stoat­shead Hill be­fore the sun had re­al­ly risen. They walked back through Ot­tery St. Catch­pole and up the damp lane to­ward the Bur­row in the dawn light, talk­ing very lit­tle be­cause they were so ex­haust­ed, and think­ing long­ing­ly of their break­fast. As they round­ed the cor­ner and the Bur­row came in­to view, a cry echoed along the lane.

“Oh thank good­ness, thank good­ness!”

Mrs. Weasley, who had ev­ident­ly been wait­ing for them in the front yard, came run­ning to­ward them, still wear­ing her bed­room slip­pers, her face pale and strained, a rolled-​up copy of the Dai­ly Prophet clutched in her hand.

“Arthur - I've been so wor­ried - so wor­ried -”

She flung her arms around Mr. Weasley's neck, and the Dai­ly Prophet fell out of her limp hand on­to the ground. Look­ing down, Har­ry saw the head­line: SCENES OF TER­ROR AT THE QUID­DITCH WORLD CUP, com­plete with a twin­kling black-​and-​white pho­to­graph of the Dark Mark over the tree­tops.

“You're all right,” Mrs. Weasley mut­tered dis­tract­ed­ly, re­leas­ing Mr. Weasley and star­ing around at them all with red eyes, “you're alive.…Oh boys…”

And to ev­ery­body's sur­prise, she seized Fred and George and pulled them both in­to such a tight hug that their heads banged to­geth­er.

“Ouch! Mum - you're stran­gling us -”

“I shout­ed at you be­fore you left!” Mrs. Weasley said, start­ing to sob. “It's all I've been think­ing about! What if You-​Know-​Who had got you, and the last thing I ev­er said to you was that you didn't get enough OW.L.s? Oh Fred…George…”

“Come on, now, Mol­ly, we're all per­fect­ly okay,” said Mr. Weasley sooth­ing­ly, pris­ing her off the twins and lead­ing her back to­ward the house. “Bill,” he added in an un­der­tone, “pick up that pa­per, I want to see what it says…”

When they were all crammed in­to the tiny kitchen, and Hermione had made Mrs. Weasley a cup of very strong tea, in­to which Mr. Weasley in­sist­ed on pour­ing a shot of Og­dens Old Firewhiskey, Bill hand­ed his fa­ther the news­pa­per. Mr. Weasley scanned the front page while Per­cy looked over his shoul­der.

“I knew it,” said Mr. Weasley heav­ily. “Min­istry blun­ders…cul­prits not ap­pre­hend­ed…lax se­cu­ri­ty…Dark wiz­ards run­ning unchecked…na­tion­al dis­grace.…Who wrote this? Ah…of course…Ri­ta Skeeter.”

“That wom­an's got it in for the Min­istry of Mag­ic!” said Per­cy fu­ri­ous­ly. “Last week she was say­ing we're wast­ing our time quib­bling about caul­dron thick­ness, when we should be stamp­ing out vam­pires! As if it wasn't specif­ical­ly stat­ed in para­graph twelve of the Guide­lines for the Treat­ment of Non-​Wiz­ard Part-​Hu­mans -”

“Do us a fa­vor, Perce,” said Bill, yawn­ing, “and shut up.”

“I'm men­tioned,” said Mr. Weasley, his eyes widen­ing be­hind his glass­es as he reached the bot­tom of the Dai­ly Prophet ar­ti­cle.

“Where?” splut­tered Mrs. Weasley, chok­ing on her tea and whiskey. “If I'd seen that, I'd have known you were alive!”

“Not by name,” said Mr. Weasley. “Lis­ten to this: 'If the ter­ri­fied wiz­ards and witch­es who wait­ed breath­less­ly for news at the edge of the wood ex­pect­ed re­as­sur­ance from the Min­istry of Mag­ic, they were sad­ly dis­ap­point­ed. A Min­istry of­fi­cial emerged some time af­ter the ap­pear­ance of the Dark Mark al­leg­ing that no­body had been hurt, but re­fus­ing to give any more in­for­ma­tion. Whether this state­ment will be enough to quash the ru­mors that sev­er­al bod­ies were re­moved from the woods an hour lat­er, re­mains to be seen.'.Oh re­al­ly,” said Mr. Weasley in ex­as­per­ation, hand­ing the pa­per to Per­cy. “No­body was hurt. What was I sup­posed to say? Ru­mors that sev­er­al bod­ies were re­moved from the woods…well, there cer­tain­ly will be ru­mors now she's print­ed that.”

He heaved a deep sigh. “Mol­ly, I'm go­ing to have to go in­to the of­fice; this is go­ing to take some smooth­ing over.”

“I'll come with you, Fa­ther,” said Per­cy im­por­tant­ly. “Mr. Crouch will need all hands on deck. And I can give him my caul­dron re­port in per­son.”

He bus­tled out of the kitchen. Mrs. Weasley looked most up­set.

“Arthur, you're sup­posed to be on hol­iday! This hasn't got any­thing to do with your of­fice; sure­ly they can han­dle this with­out you?”

“I've got to go, Mol­ly,” said Mr. Weasley. “I've made things worse. I'll just change in­to my robes and I'll be off.…”

“Mrs. Weasley,” said Har­ry sud­den­ly, un­able to con­tain him­self, “Hed­wig hasn't ar­rived with a let­ter for me, has she?”

“Hed­wig, dear?” said Mrs. Weasley dis­tract­ed­ly. “No…no, there hasn't been any post at all.”

Ron and Hermione looked cu­ri­ous­ly at Har­ry. With a mean­ing­ful look at both of them he said, “All right if I go and dump my stuff in your room, Ron?”

“Yeah…think I will too,” said Ron at once. “Hermione?”

“Yes,” she said quick­ly, and the three of them marched out of the kitchen and up the stairs.

“What's up, Har­ry?” said Ron, the mo­ment they had closed the door of the at­tic room be­hind them.

“There's some­thing I haven't told you,” Har­ry said. “On Sat­ur­day morn­ing, I woke up with my scar hurt­ing again.”

Ron's and Hermione's re­ac­tions were al­most ex­act­ly as Har­ry had imag­ined them back in his bed­room on Priv­et Drive. Hermione gasped and start­ed mak­ing sug­ges­tions at once, men­tion­ing a num­ber of ref­er­ence books, and ev­ery­body from Al­bus Dum­ble­dore to Madam Pom­frey, the Hog­warts nurse. Ron sim­ply looked dumb­struck.

“But - he wasn't there, was he? You-​Know-​Who? I mean - last time your scar kept hurt­ing, he was at Hog­warts, wasn't he?”

“I'm sure he wasn't on Priv­et Drive,” said Har­ry. “But I was dream­ing about him…him and Pe­ter - you know, Worm­tail. I can't re­mem­ber all of it now, but they were plot­ting to kill…some­one.”

He had teetered for a mo­ment on the verge of say­ing “me,” but couldn't bring him­self to make Hermione look any more hor­ri­fied than she al­ready did.

“It was on­ly a dream,” said Ron brac­ing­ly. “Just a night­mare.”

“Yeah, but was it, though?” said Har­ry, turn­ing to look out of the win­dow at the bright­en­ing sky. “It's weird, isn't it?…My scar hurts, and three days lat­er the Death Eaters are on the march, and Volde­mort's sign's up in the sky again.”

“Don't - say - his - name!” Ron hissed through grit­ted teeth.

“And re­mem­ber what Pro­fes­sor Trelawney said?” Har­ry went on, ig­nor­ing Ron. “At the end of last year?”

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was their Div­ina­tion teach­er at Hog­warts. Hermione's ter­ri­fied look van­ished as she let out a de­ri­sive snort.

“Oh Har­ry, you aren't go­ing to pay at­ten­tion to any­thing that old fraud says?”

“You weren't there,” said Har­ry. “You didn't hear her. This time was dif­fer­ent. I told you, she went in­to a trance - a re­al one. And she said the Dark Lord would rise again…greater and more ter­ri­ble than ev­er be­fore…and he'd man­age it be­cause his ser­vant was go­ing to go back to him…and that night Worm­tail es­caped.”

There was a si­lence in which Ron fid­get­ed ab­sent­mind­ed­ly with a hole in his Chud­ley Can­nons bed­spread.

“Why were you ask­ing if Hed­wig had come, Har­ry?” Hermione asked. “Are you ex­pect­ing a let­ter?”

“I told Sir­ius about my scar,” said Har­ry, shrug­ging. “I'm wait­ing for his an­swer.”

“Good think­ing!” said Ron, his ex­pres­sion clear­ing. “I bet Sir­ius'll know what to do!”

“I hoped he'd get back to me quick­ly,” said Har­ry.

“But we don't know where Sir­ius is…he could be in Africa or some­where, couldn't he?” said Hermione rea­son­ably. “Hed­wig's not go­ing to man­age that jour­ney in a few days.”

“Yeah, I know,” said Har­ry, but there was a lead­en feel­ing in his stom­ach as he looked out of the win­dow at the Hed­wig-​free sky.

“Come and have a game of Quid­ditch in the or­chard, Har­ry” said Ron. “Come on - three on three, Bill and Char­lie and Fred and George will play.…You can try out the Wron­ski Feint.…”

“Ron,” said Hermione, in an I-​don't-​think-​you're-​be­ing-​very-​sen­si­tive sort of voice, “Har­ry doesn't want to play Quid­ditch right now.…He's wor­ried, and he's tired.…We all need to go to bed…”

“Yeah, I want to play Quid­ditch,” said Har­ry sud­den­ly. “Hang on, I'll get my Fire­bolt.”

Hermione left the room, mut­ter­ing some­thing that sound­ed very much like “Boys.”



Nei­ther Mr. Weasley nor Per­cy was at home much over the fol­low­ing week. Both left the house each morn­ing be­fore the rest of the fam­ily got up, and re­turned well af­ter din­ner ev­ery night.

“It's been an ab­so­lute up­roar,” Per­cy told them im­por­tant­ly the Sun­day evening be­fore they were due to re­turn to Hog­warts. “I've been putting out fires all week. Peo­ple keep send­ing Howlers, and of course, if you don't open a Howler straight away, it ex­plodes. Scorch marks all over my desk and my best quill re­duced to cin­ders.”

“Why are they all send­ing Howlers?” asked Gin­ny, who was mend­ing her copy of One Thou­sand Mag­ical Herbs and Fun­gi with Spel­lotape on the rug in front of the liv­ing room fire.

“Com­plain­ing about se­cu­ri­ty at the World Cup,” said Per­cy. “They want com­pen­sa­tion for their ru­ined prop­er­ty. Mundun­gus Fletch­er's put in a claim for a twelve-​bed­roomed tent with en-​suite Jacuzzi, but I've got his num­ber. I know for a fact he was sleep­ing un­der a cloak propped on sticks.”

Mrs. Weasley glanced at the grand­fa­ther clock in the cor­ner. Har­ry liked this clock. It was com­plete­ly use­less if you want­ed to know the time, but oth­er­wise very in­for­ma­tive. It had nine gold­en hands, and each of them was en­graved with one of the Weasley fam­ily's names. There were no nu­mer­als around the face, but de­scrip­tions of where each fam­ily mem­ber might be. “Home,” “school,” and “work” were there, but there was al­so “trav­el­ing,” “lost,” “hos­pi­tal,” “prison,” and, in the po­si­tion where the num­ber twelve would be on a nor­mal clock, “mor­tal per­il.”

Eight of the hands were cur­rent­ly point­ing to the “home” po­si­tion, but Mr. Weasley's, which was the longest, was still point­ing to “work.” Mrs. Weasley sighed.

“Your fa­ther hasn't had to go in­to the of­fice on week­ends since the days of You-​Know-​Who,” she said. “They're work­ing him far too hard. His din­ner's go­ing to be ru­ined if he doesn't come home soon.”

“Well, Fa­ther feels he's got to make up for his mis­take at the match, doesn't he?” said Per­cy. “If truth be told, he was a tad un­wise to make a pub­lic state­ment with­out clear­ing it with his Head of De­part­ment first -”

“Don't you dare blame your fa­ther for what that wretched Skeeter wom­an wrote!” said Mrs. Weasley, flar­ing up at once.

“If Dad hadn't said any­thing, old Ri­ta would just have said it was dis­grace­ful that no­body from the Min­istry had com­ment­ed,” said Bill, who was play­ing chess with Ron. “Ri­ta Skeeter nev­er makes any­one look good. Re­mem­ber, she in­ter­viewed all the Gringotts' Charm Break­ers once, and called me 'a long-​haired pil­lock'?”

“Well, it is a bit long, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley gen­tly. “If you'd just let me -”

“No, Mum.”

Rain lashed against the liv­ing room win­dow. Hermione was im­mersed in The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 4, copies of which Mrs. Weasley had bought for her, Har­ry, and Ron in Di­agon Al­ley. Char­lie was darn­ing a fire­proof bal­acla­va. Har­ry was pol­ish­ing his Fire­bolt, the broom­stick ser­vic­ing kit Hermione had giv­en him for his thir­teenth birth­day open at his feet. Fred and George were sit­ting in a far cor­ner, quills out, talk­ing in whis­pers, their heads bent over a piece of parch­ment.

“What are you two up to?” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, her eyes on the twins.

“Home­work,” said Fred vague­ly.

“Don't be ridicu­lous, you're still on hol­iday,” said Mrs. Weasley.

“Yeah, we've left it a bit late,” said George.

“You're not by any chance writ­ing out a new or­der form, are you?” said Mrs. Weasley shrewd­ly. “You wouldn't be think­ing of restart­ing Weasleys' Wiz­ard Wheezes, by any chance?”

“Now, Mum,” said Fred, look­ing up at her, a pained look on his face. “If the Hog­warts Ex­press crashed to­mor­row, and George and I died, how would you feel to know that the last thing we ev­er heard from you was an un­found­ed ac­cu­sa­tion?”

Ev­ery­one laughed, even Mrs. Weasley.

“Oh your fa­ther's com­ing!” she said sud­den­ly, look­ing up at the clock again.

Mr. Weasley's hand had sud­den­ly spun from “work” to “trav­el­ing”; a sec­ond lat­er it had shud­dered to a halt on “home” with the oth­ers, and they heard him call­ing from the kitchen.

“Com­ing, Arthur!” called Mrs. Weasley, hur­ry­ing out of the room.

A few mo­ments lat­er, Mr. Weasley came in­to the warm liv­ing room car­ry­ing his din­ner on a tray. He looked com­plete­ly ex­haust­ed.

“Well, the fat's re­al­ly in the fire now,” he told Mrs. Weasley as he sat down in an arm­chair near the hearth and toyed un­en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly with his some­what shriv­eled cauliflow­er. “Ri­ta Skeeter's been fer­ret­ing around all week, look­ing for more Min­istry mess-​ups to re­port. And now she's found out about poor old Bertha go­ing miss­ing, so that'll be the head­line in the Prophet to­mor­row. I told Bag­man he should have sent some­one to look for her ages ago.”

“Mr. Crouch has been say­ing it for weeks and weeks,” said Per­cy swift­ly.

“Crouch is very lucky Ri­ta hasn't found out about Winky,” said Mr. Weasley ir­ri­ta­bly. “There'd be a week's worth of head­lines in his house-​elf be­ing caught hold­ing the wand that con­jured the Dark Mark.”

“I thought we were all agreed that that elf, while ir­re­spon­si­ble, did not con­jure the Mark?” said Per­cy hot­ly.

“If you ask me, Mr. Crouch is very lucky no one at the Dai­ly Prophet knows how mean he is to elves!” said Hermione an­gri­ly.

“Now look here, Hermione!” said Per­cy. “A high-​rank­ing Min­istry of­fi­cial like Mr. Crouch de­serves unswerv­ing obe­di­ence from his ser­vants -”

“His slave, you mean!” said Hermione, her voice ris­ing pas­sion­ate­ly, “be­cause he didn't pay Winky, did he?”

“I think you'd all bet­ter go up­stairs and check that you've packed prop­er­ly!” said Mrs. Weasley, break­ing up the ar­gu­ment. “Come on now, all of you.…”

Har­ry repacked his broom­stick ser­vic­ing kit, put his Fire­bolt over his shoul­der, and went back up­stairs with Ron. The rain sound­ed even loud­er at the top of the house, ac­com­pa­nied by loud whistlings and moans from the wind, not to men­tion spo­radic howls from the ghoul who lived in the at­tic. Pig­wid­geon be­gan twit­ter­ing and zoom­ing around his cage when they en­tered. The sight of the half-​packed trunks seemed to have sent him in­to a fren­zy of ex­cite­ment.

“Bung him some Owl Treats,” said Ron, throw­ing a pack­et across to Har­ry. “It might shut him up.”

Har­ry poked a few Owl Treats through the bars of Pig­wid­geon's cage, then turned to his trunk. Hed­wig's cage stood next to it, still emp­ty.

“It's been over a week,” Har­ry said, look­ing at Hed­wig's de­sert­ed perch. “Ron, you don't reck­on Sir­ius has been caught, do you?”

“Nah, it would've been in the Dai­ly Prophet,” said Ron. “The Min­istry would want to show they'd caught some­one, wouldn't they?”

“Yeah, I sup­pose.…”

“Look, here's the stuff Mum got for you in Di­agon Al­ley. And she's got some gold out of your vault for you…and she's washed all your socks.”

He heaved a pile of parcels on­to Har­ry's camp bed and dropped the mon­ey bag and a load of socks next to it. Har­ry start­ed un­wrap­ping the shop­ping. Apart from The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 4, by Mi­ran­da Goshawk, he had a hand­ful of new quills, a dozen rolls of parch­ment, and re­fills for his po­tion-​mak­ing kit - he had been run­ning low on spine of li­on­fish and essence of bel­ladon­na. He was just pil­ing un­der­wear in­to his caul­dron when Ron made a loud noise of dis­gust be­hind him.

“What is that sup­posed to be?”

He was hold­ing up some­thing that looked to Har­ry like a long, ma­roon vel­vet dress. It had a moldy-​look­ing lace frill at the col­lar and match­ing lace cuffs.

There was a knock on the door, and Mrs. Weasley en­tered, car­ry­ing an arm­ful of fresh­ly laun­dered Hog­warts robes.

“Here you are,” she said, sort­ing them in­to two piles. “Now, mind you pack them prop­er­ly so they don't crease.”

“Mum, you've giv­en me Gin­ny's new dress,” said Ron, hand­ing it out to her.

“Of course I haven't,” said Mrs. Weasley. “That's for you. Dress robes.”

“What?” said Ron, look­ing hor­ror-​struck.

“Dress robes!” re­peat­ed Mrs. Weasley. “It says on your school list that you're sup­posed to have dress robes this year…robes for for­mal oc­ca­sions.”

“You've got to be kid­ding,” said Ron in dis­be­lief. “I'm not wear­ing that, no way.”

“Ev­ery­one wears them, Ron!” said Mrs. Weasley cross­ly. “They're all like that! Your fa­ther's got some for smart par­ties!”

“I'll go stark­ers be­fore I put that on,” said Ron stub­born­ly.

“Don't be so sil­ly,” said Mrs. Weasley. “You've got to have dress robes, they're on your list! I got some for Har­ry too…show him, Har­ry.…”

In some trep­ida­tion, Har­ry opened the last par­cel on his camp bed. It wasn't as bad as he had ex­pect­ed, how­ev­er; his dress robes didn't have any lace on them at all - in fact, they were more or less the same as his school ones, ex­cept that they were bot­tle green in­stead of black.

“I thought they'd bring out the col­or of your eyes, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley fond­ly.

“Well, they're okay!” said Ron an­gri­ly, look­ing at Har­ry's robes. “Why couldn't I have some like that?”

“Be­cause…well, I had to get yours sec­ond­hand, and there wasn't a lot of choice!” said Mrs. Weasley, flush­ing.

Har­ry looked away. He would will­ing­ly have split all the mon­ey in his Gringotts vault with the Weasleys, but he knew they would nev­er take it.

“I'm nev­er wear­ing them,” Ron was say­ing stub­born­ly. “Nev­er.”

“Fine,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “Go naked. And, Har­ry, make sure you get a pic­ture of him. Good­ness knows I could do with a laugh.”

She left the room, slam­ming the door be­hind her. There was a fun­ny splut­ter­ing noise from be­hind them. Pig­wid­geon was chok­ing on an over­large Owl Treat.

“Why is ev­ery­thing I own rub­bish?” said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly, strid­ing across the room to un­stick Pig­wid­geon's beak.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER ELEVEN


ABOARD THE HOG­WART EX­PRESS



T here was a def­inite end-​of-​the-​hol­idays gloom in the air when Har­ry awoke next morn­ing. Heavy rain was still splat­ter­ing against the win­dow as he got dressed in jeans and a sweat­shirt; they would change in­to their school robes on the Hog­warts Ex­press.

He, Ron, Fred, and George had just reached the first-​floor land­ing on their way down to break­fast, when Mrs. Weasley ap­peared at the foot of the stairs, look­ing ha­rassed.

“Arthur!” she called up the stair­case. “Arthur! Ur­gent mes­sage from the Min­istry!”

Har­ry flat­tened him­self against the wall as Mr. Weasley came clat­ter­ing past with his robes on back-​to-​front and hur­tled out of sight. When Har­ry and the oth­ers en­tered the kitchen, they saw Mrs. Weasley rum­mag­ing anx­ious­ly in the draw­ers - “I've got a quill here some­where!” - and Mr. Weasley bend­ing over the fire, talk­ing to -

Har­ry shut his eyes hard and opened them again to make sure that they were work­ing prop­er­ly.

Amos Dig­gory's head was sit­ting in the mid­dle of the flames like a large, beard­ed egg. It was talk­ing very fast, com­plete­ly un­per­turbed by the sparks fly­ing around it and the flames lick­ing its ears.

“…Mug­gle neigh­bors heard bangs and shout­ing, so they went and called those what-​d'you-​call-'ems - please-​men. Arthur, you've got to get over there -”

“Here!” said Mrs. Weasley breath­less­ly, push­ing a piece of parch­ment, a bot­tle of ink, and a crum­pled quill in­to Mr. Weasley's hands.

“- it's a re­al stroke of luck I heard about it,” said Mr. Dig­gory's head. “I had to come in­to the of­fice ear­ly to send a cou­ple of owls, and I found the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic lot all set­ting off - if Ri­ta Skeeter gets hold of this one, Arthur -”

“What does Mad-​Eye say hap­pened?” asked Mr. Weasley, un­screw­ing the ink bot­tle, load­ing up his quill, and prepar­ing to take notes.

Mr. Dig­gory's head rolled its eyes. “Says he heard an in­trud­er in his yard. Says he was creep­ing to­ward the house, but was am­bushed by his dust­bins.”

“What did the dust­bins do?” asked Mr. Weasley, scrib­bling fran­ti­cal­ly.

“Made one hell of a noise and fired rub­bish ev­ery­where, as far as I can tell,” said Mr. Dig­gory. “Ap­par­ent­ly one of them was still rock­et­ing around when the please-​men turned up -”

Mr. Weasley groaned.

“And what about the in­trud­er?”

“Arthur, you know Mad-​Eye,” said Mr. Dig­gory's head, rolling its eyes again. “Some­one creep­ing in­to his yard in the dead of night? More like­ly there's a very shell-​shocked cat wan­der­ing around some­where, cov­ered in pota­to peel­ings. But if the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic lot get their hands on Mad-​Eye, he's had it - think of his record - we've got to get him off on a mi­nor charge, some­thing in your de­part­ment - what are ex­plod­ing dust­bins worth?”

“Might be a cau­tion,” said Mr. Weasley, still writ­ing very fast, his brow fur­rowed. “Mad-​Eye didn't use his wand? He didn't ac­tu­al­ly at­tack any­one?”

“I'll bet he leapt out of bed and start­ed jinx­ing ev­ery­thing he could reach through the win­dow,” said Mr. Dig­gory, “but they'll have a job prov­ing it, there aren't any ca­su­al­ties.”

“All right, I'm off,” Mr. Weasley said, and he stuffed the parch­ment with his notes on it in­to his pock­et and dashed out of the kitchen again.

Mr. Dig­gory's head looked around at Mrs. Weasley.

“Sor­ry about this, Mol­ly,” it said, more calm­ly, “both­er­ing you so ear­ly and ev­ery­thing…but Arthur's the on­ly one who can get Mad-​Eye off, and Mad-​Eye's sup­posed to be start­ing his new job to­day. Why he had to choose last night…”

“Nev­er mind, Amos,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Sure you won't have a bit of toast or any­thing be­fore you go?”

“Oh go on, then,” said Mr. Dig­gory.

Mrs. Weasley took a piece of but­tered toast from a stack on the kitchen ta­ble, put it in­to the fire tongs, and trans­ferred it in­to Mr. Dig­gory's mouth.

“Fanks,” he said in a muf­fled voice, and then, with a small pop, van­ished.

Har­ry could hear Mr. Weasley call­ing hur­ried good-​byes to Bill, Char­lie, Per­cy, and the girls. With­in five min­utes, he was back in the kitchen, his robes on the right way now, drag­ging a comb through his hair.

“I'd bet­ter hur­ry - you have a good term, boys, said Mr. Weasley to Har­ry, Ron, and the twins, fas­ten­ing a cloak over his shoul­ders and prepar­ing to Dis­ap­pa­rate. ”Mol­ly, are you go­ing to be all right tak­ing the kids to King's Cross?"

“Of course I will,” she said. “You just look af­ter Mad-​Eye, we'll be fine.”

As Mr. Weasley van­ished, Bill and Char­lie en­tered the kitchen.

“Did some­one say Mad-​Eye?” Bill asked. “What's he been up to now.”

“He says some­one tried to break in­to his house last night,” said Mrs. Weasley.

“Mad-​Eye Moody?” said George thought­ful­ly, spread­ing mar­malade on his toast. “Isn't he that nut­ter -”

“Your fa­ther thinks very high­ly of Mad-​Eye Moody,” said Mrs. Weasley stern­ly.

“Yeah, well, Dad col­lects plugs, doesn't he?” said Fred qui­et­ly as Mrs. Weasley left the room. “Birds of a feath­er.…”

“Moody was a great wiz­ard in his time,” said Bill.

“He's an old friend of Dum­ble­dore's, isn't he?” said Char­lie.

“Dum­ble­dore's not what you'd call nor­mal, though, is he?” said Fred. “I mean, I know he's a ge­nius and ev­ery­thing.…”

“Who is Mad-​Eye?” asked Har­ry.

“He's re­tired, used to work at the Min­istry,” said Char­lie. “I met him once when Dad took me in­to work with him. He was an Au­ror - one of the best…a Dark wiz­ard catch­er,” he added, see­ing Har­ry's blank look. “Half the cells in Azk­aban are full be­cause of him. He made him­self loads of en­emies, though…the fam­ilies of peo­ple he caught, main­ly…and I heard he's been get­ting re­al­ly para­noid in his old age. Doesn't trust any­one any­more. Sees Dark wiz­ards ev­ery­where.”

Bill and Char­lie de­cid­ed to come and see ev­ery­one off at King's Cross sta­tion, but Per­cy, apol­ogiz­ing most pro­fuse­ly, said that he re­al­ly need­ed to get to work.

“I just can't jus­ti­fy tak­ing more time off at the mo­ment,” he told them. “Mr. Crouch is re­al­ly start­ing to re­ly on me.”

“Yeah, you know what, Per­cy?” said George se­ri­ous­ly. “I reck­on he'll know your name soon.”

Mrs. Weasley had braved the tele­phone in the vil­lage post of­fice to or­der three or­di­nary Mug­gle taxis to take them in­to Lon­don.

“Arthur tried to bor­row Min­istry cars for us,” Mrs. Weasley whis­pered to Har­ry as they stood in the rain-​washed yard, watch­ing the taxi drivers heav­ing six heavy Hog­warts trunks in­to their cars. “But there weren't any to spare.…Oh dear, they don't look hap­py, do they?”

Har­ry didn't like to tell Mrs. Weasley that Mug­gle taxi drivers rarely trans­port­ed overex­cit­ed owls, and Pig­wid­geon was mak­ing an ear­split­ting rack­et. Nor did it help that a num­ber of Fil­ibuster's Fab­ulous No-​Heat, Wet-​Start Fire­works went off un­ex­pect­ed­ly when Fred's trunk sprang open, caus­ing the driv­er car­ry­ing it to yell with fright and pain as Crook­shanks clawed his way up the man's leg.

The jour­ney was un­com­fort­able, ow­ing to the fact that they were jammed in the back of the taxis with their trunks. Crook­shanks took quite a while to re­cov­er from the fire­works, and by the time they en­tered Lon­don, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were all severe­ly scratched. They were very re­lieved to get out at King's Cross, even though the rain was com­ing down hard­er than ev­er, and they got soaked car­ry­ing their trunks across the busy road and in­to the sta­tion.

Har­ry was used to get­ting on­to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters by now. It was a sim­ple mat­ter of walk­ing straight through the ap­par­ent­ly sol­id bar­ri­er di­vid­ing plat­forms nine and ten. The on­ly tricky part was do­ing this in an un­ob­tru­sive way, so as to avoid at­tract­ing Mug­gle at­ten­tion. They did it in groups to­day; Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione (the most con­spic­uous, since they were ac­com­pa­nied by Pig­wid­geon and Crook­shanks) went first; they leaned ca­su­al­ly against the bar­ri­er, chat­ting un­con­cerned­ly, and slid side­ways through it…and as they did so, plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters ma­te­ri­al­ized in front of them.

The Hog­warts Ex­press, a gleam­ing scar­let steam en­gine, was al­ready there, clouds of steam bil­low­ing from it, through which the many Hog­warts stu­dents and par­ents on the plat­form ap­peared like dark ghosts. Pig­wid­geon be­came nois­ier than ev­er in re­sponse to the hoot­ing of many owls through the mist. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione set off to find seats, and were soon stow­ing their lug­gage in a com­part­ment halfway along the train. They then hopped back down on­to the plat­form to say good-​bye to Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Char­lie.

“I might be see­ing you all soon­er than you think,” said Char­lie, grin­ning, as he hugged Gin­ny good-​bye.

“Why?” said Fred keen­ly.

“You'll see,” said Char­lie. “Just don't tell Per­cy I men­tioned it…it's 'clas­si­fied in­for­ma­tion, un­til such time as the Min­istry sees fit to re­lease it,' af­ter all.”

“Yeah, I sort of wish I were back at Hog­warts this year,” said Bill, hands in his pock­ets, look­ing al­most wist­ful­ly at the train.

“Why?” said George im­pa­tient­ly.

“You're go­ing to have an in­ter­est­ing year,” said Bill, his eyes twin­kling. “I might even get time off to come and watch a bit of it.”

“A bit of what?” said Ron.

But at that mo­ment, the whis­tle blew, and Mrs. Weasley chivvied them to­ward the train doors.

“Thanks for hav­ing us to stay, Mrs. Weasley,” said Hermione as they climbed on board, closed the door, and leaned out of the win­dow to talk to her.

“Yeah, thanks for ev­ery­thing, Mrs. Weasley,” said Har­ry.

“Oh it was my plea­sure, dears,” said Mrs. Weasley. “I'd in­vite you for Christ­mas, but…well, I ex­pect you're all go­ing to want to stay at Hog­warts, what with…one thing and an­oth­er.”

“Mum!” said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly. “What d'you three know that we don't?”

“You'll find out this evening, I ex­pect,” said Mrs. Weasley, smil­ing. “It's go­ing to be very ex­cit­ing - mind you, I'm very glad they've changed the rules -”

“What rules?” said Har­ry, Ron, Fred, and George to­geth­er.

“I'm sure Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore will tell you.…Now, be­have, won't you? Won't you, Fred? And you, George?”

The pis­tons hissed loud­ly and the train be­gan to move.

“Tell us what's hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts!” Fred bel­lowed out of the win­dow as Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Char­lie sped away from them. “What rules are they chang­ing?”

But Mrs. Weasley on­ly smiled and waved. Be­fore the train had round­ed the cor­ner, she, Bill, and Char­lie had Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione went back to their com­part­ment. The thick rain splat­ter­ing the win­dows made it very dif­fi­cult to see out of them. Ron un­did his trunk, pulled out his ma­roon dress robes, and flung them over Pig­wid­geon's cage to muf­fle his hoot­ing.

“Bag­man want­ed to tell us what's hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts,” he said grumpi­ly, sit­ting down next to Har­ry. “At the World Cup, re­mem­ber? But my own moth­er won't say. Won­der what -”

“Shh!” Hermione whis­pered sud­den­ly, press­ing her fin­ger to her lips and point­ing to­ward the com­part­ment next to theirs. Har­ry and Ron lis­tened, and heard a fa­mil­iar drawl­ing voice drift­ing in through the open door.

“…Fa­ther ac­tu­al­ly con­sid­ered send­ing me to Durm­strang rather than Hog­warts, you know. He knows the head­mas­ter, you see. Well, you know his opin­ion of Dum­ble­dore - the man's such a Mud­blood-​lover - and Durm­strang doesn't ad­mit that sort of riffraff. But Moth­er didn't like the idea of me go­ing to school so far away. Fa­ther says Durm­strang takes a far more sen­si­ble line than Hog­warts about the Dark Arts. Durm­strang stu­dents ac­tu­al­ly learn them, not just the de­fense rub­bish we do.…”

Hermione got up, tip­toed to the com­part­ment door, and slid it shut, block­ing out Mal­foy's voice.

“So he thinks Durm­strang would have suit­ed him, does he?” she said an­gri­ly. “I wish he had gone, then we wouldn't have to put up with him.”

“Durm­strang's an­oth­er wiz­ard­ing school?” said Har­ry.

“Yes,” said Hermione sniffi­ly, “and it's got a hor­ri­ble rep­uta­tion. Ac­cord­ing to An Ap­praisal of Mag­ical Ed­uca­tion in Eu­rope, it puts a lot of em­pha­sis on the Dark Arts.”

“I think I've heard of it,” said Ron vague­ly. “Where is it? What coun­try?”

“Well, no­body knows, do they?” said Hermione, rais­ing her eye­brows.

“Er - why not?” said Har­ry.

“There's tra­di­tion­al­ly been a lot of ri­val­ry be­tween all the mag­ic schools. Durm­strang and Beaux­ba­tons like to con­ceal their where­abouts so no­body can steal their se­crets,” said Hermione mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly.

“Come off it,” said Ron, start­ing to laugh. “Durm­strang's got to be about the same size as Hog­warts - how are you go­ing to hide a great big cas­tle?”

“But Hog­warts is hid­den,” said Hermione, in sur­prise. “Ev­ery­one knows that…well, ev­ery­one who's read Hog­warts, A His­to­ry, any­way.”

“Just you, then,” said Ron. “So go on - how d'you hide a place like Hog­warts?”

“It's be­witched,” said Hermione. “If a Mug­gle looks at it, all they see is a molder­ing old ru­in with a sign over the en­trance say­ing DAN­GER, DO NOT EN­TER, UN­SAFE .”

“So Durm­strang'll just look like a ru­in to an out­sider too?”

“Maybe,” said Hermione, shrug­ging, “or it might have Mug­gle-​re­pelling charms on it, like the World Cup sta­di­um. And to keep for­eign wiz­ards from find­ing it, they'll have made it Un­plot­table -”

“Come again?”

“Well, you can en­chant a build­ing so it's im­pos­si­ble to plot on a map, can't you?”

“Er…if you say so,” said Har­ry.

“But I think Durm­strang must be some­where in the far north,” said Hermione thought­ful­ly. “Some­where very cold, be­cause they've got fur capes as part of their uni­forms.”

“Ah, think of the pos­si­bil­ities,” said Ron dream­ily. “It would've been so easy to push Mal­foy off a glacier and make it look like an ac­ci­dent.…Shame his moth­er likes him.…”

The rain be­came heav­ier and heav­ier as the train moved far­ther north. The sky was so dark and the win­dows so steamy that the lanterns were lit by mid­day. The lunch trol­ley came rat­tling along the cor­ri­dor, and Har­ry bought a large stack of Caul­dron Cakes for them to share.

Sev­er­al of their friends looked in on them as the af­ter­noon pro­gressed, in­clud­ing Sea­mus Finni­gan, Dean Thomas, and Neville Long­bot­tom, a round-​faced, ex­treme­ly for­get­ful boy who had been brought up by his formidable witch of a grand­moth­er. Sea­mus was still wear­ing his Ire­land rosette. Some of its mag­ic seemed to be wear­ing off now; it was still squeak­ing “Troy - Mul­let - Moran!” but in a very fee­ble and ex­haust­ed sort of way. Af­ter half an hour or so, Hermione, grow­ing tired of the end­less Quid­ditch talk, buried her­self once more in The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 4, and start­ed try­ing to learn a Sum­mon­ing Charm.

Neville lis­tened jeal­ous­ly to the oth­ers' con­ver­sa­tion as they re­liv­ed the Cup match.

“Gran didn't want to go,” he said mis­er­ably. “Wouldn't buy tick­ets. It sound­ed amaz­ing though.”

“It was,” said Ron. “Look at this, Neville…”

He rum­maged in his trunk up in the lug­gage rack and pulled out the minia­ture fig­ure of Vik­tor Krum.

“Oh wow,” said Neville en­vi­ous­ly as Ron tipped Krum on­to his pudgy hand.

“We saw him right up close, as well,” said Ron. “We were in the Top Box -”

“For the first and last time in your life, Weasley.”

Dra­co Mal­foy had ap­peared in the door­way. Be­hind him stood Crabbe and Goyle, his enor­mous, thug­gish cronies, both of whom ap­peared to have grown at least a foot dur­ing the sum­mer. Ev­ident­ly they had over­heard the con­ver­sa­tion through the com­part­ment door, which Dean and Sea­mus had left ajar.

“Don't re­mem­ber ask­ing you to join us, Mal­foy,” said Har­ry cool­ly.

“Weasley…what is that?” said Mal­foy, point­ing at Pig­wid­geon's cage. A sleeve of Ron's dress robes was dan­gling from it, sway­ing with the mo­tion of the train, the moldy lace cuff very ob­vi­ous.

Ron made to stuff the robes out of sight, but Mal­foy was too quick for him; he seized the sleeve and pulled.

“Look at this!” said Mal­foy in ec­sta­sy, hold­ing up Ron's robes and show­ing Crabbe and Goyle, “Weasley, you weren't think­ing of wear­ing these, were you? I mean - they were very fash­ion­able in about eigh­teen nine­ty…”

“Eat dung, Mal­foy!” said Ron, the same col­or as the dress robes as he snatched them back out of Mal­foy's grip. Mal­foy howled with de­ri­sive laugh­ter; Crabbe and Goyle guf­fawed stupid­ly.

“So…go­ing to en­ter, Weasley? Go­ing to try and bring a bit of glo­ry to the fam­ily name? There's mon­ey in­volved as well, you know…you'd be able to af­ford some de­cent robes if you won.…”

“What are you talk­ing about?” snapped Ron.

“Are you go­ing to en­ter?” Mal­foy re­peat­ed. “I sup­pose you will, Pot­ter? You nev­er miss a chance to show off, do you?”

“Ei­ther ex­plain what you're on about or go away, Mal­foy,” said Hermione testi­ly, over the top of The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 4.

A glee­ful smile spread across Mal­foy's pale face

“Don't tell me you don't know?” he said de­light­ed­ly. “You've got a fa­ther and broth­er at the Min­istry and you don't even know? My God, my fa­ther told me about it ages ago…heard it from Cor­nelius Fudge. But then, Fa­ther's al­ways as­so­ci­at­ed with the top peo­ple at the Min­istry.…Maybe your fa­ther's too ju­nior to know about it, Weasley…yes…they prob­ably don't talk about im­por­tant stuff in front of him.…”

Laugh­ing once more, Mal­foy beck­oned to Crabbe and Goyle, and the three of them dis­ap­peared.

Ron got to his feet and slammed the slid­ing com­part­ment door so hard be­hind them that the glass shat­tered.

“Ron!” said Hermione re­proach­ful­ly, and she pulled out her wand, mut­tered “Reparo!” and the glass shards flew back in­to a sin­gle pane and back in­to the door.

“Well…mak­ing it look like he knows ev­ery­thing and we don't.…” Ron snarled. “'Fa­ther's al­ways as­so­ci­at­ed with the top peo­ple at the Min­istry'…Dad could've got a pro­mo­tion any time…he just likes it where he is.…”

“Of course he does,” said Hermione qui­et­ly. “Don't let Mal­foy get to you, Ron -”

“Him! Get to me!? As if!” said Ron, pick­ing up one of the re­main­ing Caul­dron Cakes and squash­ing it in­to a pulp.

Ron's bad mood con­tin­ued for the rest of the jour­ney. He didn't talk much as they changed in­to their school robes, and was still glow­er­ing when the Hog­warts Ex­press slowed down at last and fi­nal­ly stopped in the pitch-​dark­ness of Hogsmeade sta­tion.

As the train doors opened, there was a rum­ble of thun­der over­head. Hermione bun­dled up Crook­shanks in her cloak and Ron left his dress robes over Pig­wid­geon as they left the train, heads bent and eyes nar­rowed against the down­pour. The rain was now com­ing down so thick and fast that it was as though buck­ets of ice-​cold wa­ter were be­ing emp­tied re­peat­ed­ly over their heads.

“Hi, Ha­grid!” Har­ry yelled, see­ing a gi­gan­tic sil­hou­ette at the far end of the plat­form.

“All righ', Har­ry?” Ha­grid bel­lowed back, wav­ing. “See yeh at the feast if we don' drown!”

First years tra­di­tion­al­ly reached Hog­warts Cas­tle by sail­ing across the lake with Ha­grid.

“Oooh, I wouldn't fan­cy cross­ing the lake in this weath­er,” said Hermione fer­vent­ly, shiv­er­ing as they inched slow­ly along the dark plat­form with the rest of the crowd. A hun­dred horse­less car­riages stood wait­ing for them out­side the sta­tion. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville climbed grate­ful­ly in­to one of them, the door shut with a snap, and a few mo­ments lat­er, with a great lurch, the long pro­ces­sion of car­riages was rum­bling and splash­ing its way up the track to­ward Hog­warts Cas­tle.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWELVE


THE TRI­WIZ­ARD TOUR­NA­MENT



T hrough the gates, flanked with stat­ues of winged boars, and up the sweep­ing drive the car­riages trun­dled, sway­ing dan­ger­ous­ly in what was fast be­com­ing a gale. Lean­ing against the win­dow, Har­ry could see Hog­warts com­ing near­er, its many light­ed win­dows blurred and shim­mer­ing be­hind the thick cur­tain of rain. Light­ning flashed across the sky as their car­riage came to a halt be­fore the great oak front doors, which stood at the top of a flight of stone steps. Peo­ple who had oc­cu­pied the car­riages in front were al­ready hur­ry­ing up the stone steps in­to the cas­tle. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville jumped down from their car­riage and dashed up the steps too, look­ing up on­ly when they were safe­ly in­side the cav­ernous, torch-​lit en­trance hall, with its mag­nif­icent mar­ble stair­case.

“Blimey,” said Ron, shak­ing his head and send­ing wa­ter ev­ery­where, “if that keeps up the lake's go­ing to over­flow. I'm soak - AR­RGH!”

A large, red, wa­ter-​filled bal­loon had dropped from out of the ceil­ing on­to Ron's head and ex­plod­ed. Drenched and sput­ter­ing, Ron stag­gered side­ways in­to Har­ry, just as a sec­ond wa­ter bomb dropped - nar­row­ly miss­ing Hermione, it burst at Har­ry's feet, send­ing a wave of cold wa­ter over his sneak­ers in­to his socks. Peo­ple all around them shrieked and start­ed push­ing one an­oth­er in their ef­forts to get out of the line of fire. Har­ry looked up and saw, float­ing twen­ty feet above them, Peeves the Poltergeist, a lit­tle man in a bell-​cov­ered hat and or­ange bow tie, his wide, ma­li­cious face con­tort­ed with con­cen­tra­tion as he took aim again.

“PEEVES!” yelled an an­gry voice. “Peeves, come down here at ONCE!”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Deputy Head­mistress and head of Gryffind­or House, had come dash­ing out of the Great Hall; she skid­ded on the wet floor and grabbed Hermione around the neck to stop her­self from falling.

“Ouch - sor­ry, Miss Granger -” “That's all right, Pro­fes­sor!” Hermione gasped, mas­sag­ing her throat.

“Peeves, get down here NOW!” barked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, straight­en­ing her point­ed hat and glar­ing up­ward through her square-​rimmed spec­ta­cles.

“Not do­ing noth­ing!” cack­led Peeves, lob­bing a wa­ter bomb at sev­er­al fifth-​year girls, who screamed and dived in­to the Great Hall. “Al­ready wet, aren't they? Lit­tle squirts! Wheeeeeeeeee!” And he aimed an­oth­er bomb at a group of sec­ond years who had just ar­rived.

“I shall call the head­mas­ter!” shout­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “I'm warn­ing you, Peeves -” Peeves stuck out his tongue, threw the last of his wa­ter bombs in­to the air, and zoomed off up the mar­ble stair­case, cack­ling in­sane­ly.

“Well, move along, then!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply to the bedrag­gled crowd. “In­to the Great Hall, come on!”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione slipped and slid across the en­trance hall and through the dou­ble doors on the right, Ron mut­ter­ing fu­ri­ous­ly un­der his breath as he pushed his sop­ping hair off his face.

The Great Hall looked its usu­al splen­did self, dec­orat­ed for the start-​of-​term feast. Gold­en plates and gob­lets gleamed by the light of hun­dreds and hun­dreds of can­dles, float­ing over the ta­bles in midair. The four long House ta­bles were packed with chat­ter­ing stu­dents; at the top of the Hall, the staff sat along one side of a fifth ta­ble, fac­ing their pupils. It was much warmer in here. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione walked past the Slytherins, the Raven­claws, and the Huf­flepuffs, and sat down with the rest of the Gryffind­ors at the far side of the Hall, next to Near­ly Head­less Nick, the Gryffind­or ghost. Pearly white and semi­trans­par­ent, Nick was dressed tonight in his usu­al dou­blet, but with a par­tic­ular­ly large ruff, which served the du­al pur­pose of look­ing ex­tra-​fes­tive, and in­sur­ing that his head didn't wob­ble too much on his par­tial­ly sev­ered neck.

“Good evening,” he said, beam­ing at them.

“Says who?” said Har­ry, tak­ing off his sneak­ers and emp­ty­ing them of wa­ter. “Hope they hur­ry up with the Sort­ing. I'm starv­ing.”

The Sort­ing of the new stu­dents in­to Hous­es took place at the start of ev­ery school year, but by an un­lucky com­bi­na­tion of cir­cum­stances, Har­ry hadn't been present at one since his own. He was quite look­ing for­ward to it. Just then, a high­ly ex­cit­ed, breath­less voice called down the ta­ble.

“Hiya, Har­ry!”

It was Col­in Creevey, a third year to whom Har­ry was some­thing of a hero.

“Hi, Col­in,” said Har­ry war­ily.

“Har­ry, guess what? Guess what, Har­ry? My broth­er's start­ing! My broth­er Den­nis!”

“Er - good,” said Har­ry.

“He's re­al­ly ex­cit­ed!” said Col­in, prac­ti­cal­ly bounc­ing up and down in his seat. “I just hope he's in Gryffind­or! Keep your fin­gers crossed, eh, Har­ry?”

“Er - yeah, all right,” said Har­ry. He turned back to Hermione, Ron, and Near­ly Head­less Nick. “Broth­ers and sis­ters usu­al­ly go in the same Hous­es, don't they?” he said. He was judg­ing by the Weasleys, all sev­en of whom had been put in­to Gryffind­or.

“Oh no, not nec­es­sar­ily,” said Hermione. “Par­vati Patil's twin's in Raven­claw, and they're iden­ti­cal. You'd think they'd be to­geth­er, wouldn't you?” Har­ry looked up at the staff ta­ble. There seemed to be rather more emp­ty seats there than usu­al. Ha­grid, of course, was still fight­ing his way across the lake with the first years; Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was pre­sum­ably su­per­vis­ing the dry­ing of the en­trance hall floor, but there was an­oth­er emp­ty chair too, and Har­ry couldn't think who else was miss­ing.

“Where's the new De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er?” said Hermione, who was al­so look­ing up at the teach­ers.

They had nev­er yet had a De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er who had last­ed more than three terms. Har­ry's fa­vorite by far had been Pro­fes­sor Lupin, who had re­signed last year. He looked up and down the staff ta­ble. There was def­inite­ly no new face there.

“Maybe they couldn't get any­one!” said Hermione, look­ing anx­ious.

Har­ry scanned the ta­ble more care­ful­ly. Tiny lit­tle Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, the Charms teach­er, was sit­ting on a large pile of cush­ions be­side Pro­fes­sor Sprout, the Her­bol­ogy teach­er, whose hat was askew over her fly­away gray hair. She was talk­ing to Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra of the As­tron­omy de­part­ment. On Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra's oth­er side was the sal­low-​faced, hook-​nosed, greasy-​haired Po­tions mas­ter, Snape - Har­ry's least fa­vorite per­son at Hog­warts. Har­ry's loathing of Snape was matched on­ly by Snape's ha­tred of him, a ha­tred which had, if pos­si­ble, in­ten­si­fied last year, when Har­ry had helped Sir­ius es­cape right un­der Snape's over­large nose - Snape and Sir­ius had been en­emies since their own school days.

On Snape's oth­er side was an emp­ty seat, which Har­ry guessed was Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's. Next to it, and in the very cen­ter of the ta­ble, sat Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, the head­mas­ter, his sweep­ing sil­ver hair and beard shin­ing in the can­dle­light, his mag­nif­icent deep green robes em­broi­dered with many stars and moons. The tips of Dum­ble­dore's long, thin fin­gers were to­geth­er and he was rest­ing his chin up­on them, star­ing up at the ceil­ing through his half-​moon spec­ta­cles as though lost in thought. Har­ry glanced up at the ceil­ing too. It was en­chant­ed to look like the sky out­side, and he had nev­er seen it look this stormy. Black and pur­ple clouds were swirling across it, and as an­oth­er thun­der­clap sound­ed out­side, a fork of light­ning flashed across it.

“Oh hur­ry up,” Ron moaned, be­side Har­ry, “I could eat a hip­pogriff.”

The words were no soon­er out of his mouth than the doors of the Great Hall opened and si­lence fell. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was lead­ing a long line of first years up to the top of the Hall. If Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were wet, it was noth­ing to how these first years looked. They ap­peared to have swum across the lake rather than sailed. All of them were shiv­er­ing with a com­bi­na­tion of cold and nerves as they filed along the staff ta­ble and came to a halt in a line fac­ing the rest of the school - all of them ex­cept the small­est of the lot, a boy with mousy hair, who was wrapped in what Har­ry rec­og­nized as Ha­grid's mole­skin over­coat. The coat was so big for him that it hooked as though he were draped in a fur­ry black cir­cus tent. His small face pro­trud­ed from over the col­lar, look­ing al­most painful­ly ex­cit­ed. When he had lined up with his ter­ri­fied-​look­ing peers, he caught Col­in Creevey's eye, gave a dou­ble thumbs-​up, and mouthed, I fell in the lake! He looked pos­itive­ly de­light­ed about it.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall now placed a three-​legged stool on the ground be­fore the first years and, on top of it, an ex­treme­ly old, dirty patched wiz­ard's hat. The first years stared at it. So did ev­ery­one else. For a mo­ment, there was si­lence. Then a long tear near the brim opened wide like a mouth, and the hat broke in­to song:



A thou­sand years or more ago,

When I was new­ly sewn,There lived four wiz­ards of renown,

Whose names are still well known:

Bold Gryffind­or, from wild moor,

Fair Raven­claw, from glen,

Sweet Huf­flepuff, from val­ley broad,

Shrewd Slytherin, from fin.

They shared a wish, a hope, a dream,

They hatched a dar­ing plan

To ed­ucate young sor­cer­ers

Thus Hog­warts School be­gan.

Now each of these four founders

Formed their own house, for each

Did val­ue dif­fer­ent virtues

In the ones they had to teach.

By Gryffind­or, the bravest were

Prized far be­yond the rest;

For Raven­claw, the clever­est

Would al­ways be the best;

For Huf­flepuff, hard work­ers were

Most wor­thy of ad­mis­sion;

And pow­er-​hun­gry Slytherin

Loved those of great am­bi­tion.

While still alive they did di­vide

Their fa­vorites from the throng,

Yet how to pick the wor­thy ones

When they were dead and gone?

Twas Gryffind­or who found the way,

He whipped me off his head

The founders put some brains in me

So I could choose in­stead!

Now slip me snug about your ears,

I've nev­er yet been wrong,

I'll have a look in­side your mind

And tell where you be­long!



The Great Hall rang with ap­plause as the Sort­ing Hat fin­ished.

“That's not the song it sang when it Sort­ed us,” said Har­ry, clap­ping along with ev­ery­one else. “Sings a dif­fer­ent one ev­ery year,” said Ron. “It's got to be a pret­ty bor­ing life, hasn't it, be­ing a hat? I sup­pose it spends all year mak­ing up the next one.” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was now un­rolling a large scroll of parch­ment.

“When I call out your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool,” she told the first years. "When the hat an­nounces your House, you will go and sit at the ap­pro­pri­ate ta­ble.

“Ack­er­ley, Stew­art!”

A boy walked for­ward, vis­ibly trem­bling from head to foot, picked up the Sort­ing Hat, put it on, and sat down on the stool.

“RAVEN­CLAW!” shout­ed the hat.

Stew­art Ack­er­ley took off the hat and hur­ried in­to a seat at the Raven­claw ta­ble, where ev­ery­one was ap­plaud­ing him. Har­ry caught a glimpse of Cho, the Raven­claw Seek­er, cheer­ing Stew­art Ack­er­ley as he sat down. For a fleet­ing sec­ond, Har­ry had a strange de­sire to join the Raven­claw ta­ble too.

“Bad­dock, Mal­colm!”

“SLYTHERIN!”

The ta­ble on the oth­er side of the hall erupt­ed with cheers; Har­ry could see Mal­foy clap­ping as Bad­dock joined the Slytherins. Har­ry won­dered whether Bad­dock knew that Slytherin House had turned out more Dark witch­es and wiz­ards than any oth­er. Fred and George hissed Mal­colm Bad­dock as he sat down.

“Bran­stone, Eleanor!”

“HUF­FLEPUFF!”

“Cauld­well, Owen!”

“HUF­FLEPUFF!”

“Creevey, Den­nis!”

Tiny Den­nis Creevey stag­gered for­ward, trip­ping over Ha­grid's mole­skin, just as Ha­grid him­self si­dled in­to the Hall through a door be­hind the teach­ers' ta­ble. About twice as tall as a nor­mal man, and at least three times as broad, Ha­grid, with his long, wild, tan­gled black hair and beard, looked slight­ly alarm­ing - a mis­lead­ing im­pres­sion, for Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione knew Ha­grid to pos­sess a very kind na­ture. He winked at them as he sat down at the end of the staff ta­ble and watched Den­nis Creevey putting on the Sort­ing Hat. The rip at the brim opened wide - “GRYFFIND­OR!” the hat shout­ed. Ha­grid clapped along with the Gryffind­ors as Den­nis Creevey, beam­ing wide­ly, took off the hat, placed it back on the stool, and hur­ried over to join his broth­er.

“Col­in, I fell in!” he said shril­ly, throw­ing him­self in­to an emp­ty seat. “It was bril­liant! And some­thing in the wa­ter grabbed me and pushed me back in the boat!”

“Cool!” said Col­in, just as ex­cit­ed­ly. “It was prob­ably the gi­ant squid, Den­nis!”

“Wow!” said Den­nis, as though no­body in their wildest dreams could hope for more than be­ing thrown in­to a storm-​tossed, fath­oms-​deep lake, and pushed out of it again by a gi­ant sea mon­ster.

“Den­nis! Den­nis! See that boy down there? The one with the black hair and glass­es? See him? Know who he is, Den­nis?”

Har­ry looked away, star­ing very hard at the Sort­ing Hat, now Sort­ing Em­ma Dobbs.

The Sort­ing con­tin­ued; boys and girls with vary­ing de­grees of fright on their faces mov­ing one by one to the three-​legged stool, the line dwin­dling slow­ly as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall passed the L's. “Oh hur­ry up,” Ron moaned, mas­sag­ing his stom­ach. “Now, Ron, the Sort­ing's much more im­por­tant than food,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick as “Madley, Lau­ra!” be­came a Huf­flepuff.

“Course it is, if you're dead,” snapped Ron.

“I do hope this year's batch of Gryffind­ors are up to scratch,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick, ap­plaud­ing as “Mc­Don­ald, Na­tal­ie!” joined the Gryffind­or ta­ble. “We don't want to break our win­ning streak, do we?” Gryffind­or had won the In­ter-​House Cham­pi­onship for the last three years in a row.

“Pritchard, Gra­ham!”

“SLYTHERIN!”

“Quirke, Or­la!”

“RAVEN­CLAW!”

And fi­nal­ly, with “Whit­by, Kevin!” (“HUF­FLEPUFF!”), the Sort­ing end­ed. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall picked up the hat and the stool and car­ried them away.

“About time,” said Ron, seiz­ing his knife and fork and look­ing ex­pec­tant­ly at his gold­en plate.

Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore had got­ten to his feet. He was smil­ing around at the stu­dents, his arms opened wide in wel­come.

“I have on­ly two words to say to you,” he told them, his deep voice echo­ing around the Hall. “Tuck in.”

“Hear, hear!” said Har­ry and Ron loud­ly as the emp­ty dish­es filled mag­ical­ly be­fore their eyes.

Near­ly Head­less Nick watched mourn­ful­ly as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione load­ed their own plates.

“Aaah, 'at's be'er,” said Ron, with his mouth full of mashed pota­to.

“You're lucky there's a feast at all tonight, you know,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick. “There was trou­ble in the kitchens ear­li­er.” “Why? Wha' 'ap­pened?” said Har­ry, through a siz­able chunk of steak.

“Peeves, of course,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick, shak­ing his head, which wob­bled dan­ger­ous­ly. He pulled his ruff a lit­tle high­er up on his neck. “The usu­al ar­gu­ment, you know. He want­ed to at­tend the feast - well, it's quite out of the ques­tion, you know what he's like, ut­ter­ly un­civ­ilized, can't see a plate of food with­out throw­ing it. We held a ghost's coun­cil - the Fat Fri­ar was all for giv­ing him the chance - but most wise­ly, in my opin­ion, the Bloody Baron put his foot down.” The Bloody Baron was the Slytherin ghost, a gaunt and silent specter cov­ered in sil­ver blood­stains. He was the on­ly per­son at Hog­warts who could re­al­ly con­trol Peeves.

“Yeah, we thought Peeves seemed hacked off about some­thing,” said Ron dark­ly. “So what did he do in the kitchens?”

“Oh the usu­al,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick, shrug­ging. “Wreaked hav­oc and may­hem. Pots and pans ev­ery­where. Place swim­ming in soup. Ter­ri­fied the house-​elves out of their wits -”

Clang.

Hermione had knocked over her gold­en gob­let. Pump­kin juice spread steadi­ly over the table­cloth, stain­ing sev­er­al feet of white linen or­ange, but Hermione paid no at­ten­tion.

“There are house-​elves here?” she said, star­ing, hor­ror-​struck, at Near­ly Head­less Nick. “Here at Hog­warts?”

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick, look­ing sur­prised at her re­ac­tion. “The largest num­ber in any dwelling in Britain, I be­lieve. Over a hun­dred.”

“I've nev­er seen one!” said Hermione.

“Well, they hard­ly ev­er leave the kitchen by day, do they?” said Near­ly Head­less Nick. “They come out at night to do a bit of clean­ing…see to the fires and so on.…I mean, you're not sup­posed to see them, are you? That's the mark of a good house-​elf, isn't it, that you don't know it's there?”

Hermione stared at him.

“But they get paid?” she said. “They get hol­idays, don't they? And - and sick leave, and pen­sions, and ev­ery­thing?”

Near­ly Head­less Nick chor­tled so much that his ruff slipped and his head flopped off, dan­gling on the inch or so of ghost­ly skin and mus­cle that still at­tached it to his neck.

“Sick leave and pen­sions?” he said, push­ing his head back on­to his shoul­ders and se­cur­ing it once more with his ruff. “House-​elves don't want sick leave and pen­sions!”

Hermione looked down at her hard­ly touched plate of food, then put her knife and fork down up­on it and pushed it away from her.

“Oh c'mon, 'Er-​my-​knee,” said Ron, ac­ci­den­tal­ly spray­ing Har­ry with bits of York­shire pud­ding. “Oops - sor­ry, 'Ar­ry -” He swal­lowed. “You won't get them sick leave by starv­ing your­self!” “Slave la­bor,” said Hermione, breath­ing hard through her nose. “That's what made this din­ner. Slave la­bor.”

And she re­fused to eat an­oth­er bite.

The rain was still drum­ming heav­ily against the high, dark glass. An­oth­er clap of thun­der shook the win­dows, and the stormy ceil­ing flashed, il­lu­mi­nat­ing the gold­en plates as the re­mains of the first course van­ished and were re­placed, in­stant­ly, with pud­dings.

“Trea­cle tart, Hermione!” said Ron, de­lib­er­ate­ly waft­ing its smell to­ward her. “Spot­ted dick, look! Choco­late gateau!”

But Hermione gave him a look so rem­inis­cent of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall that he gave up.

When the pud­dings too had been de­mol­ished, and the last crumbs had fad­ed off the plates, leav­ing them sparkling clean, Al­bus Dum­ble­dore got to his feet again. The buzz of chat­ter fill­ing the Hall ceased al­most at once, so that on­ly the howl­ing wind and pound­ing rain could be heard.

“So!” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing around at them all. “Now that we are all fed and wa­tered,” (“Hmph!” said Hermione) "I must once more ask for your at­ten­tion, while I give out a few no­tices.

“Mr. Filch, the care­tak­er, has asked me to tell you that the list of ob­jects for­bid­den in­side the cas­tle has this year been ex­tend­ed to in­clude Scream­ing Yo-​yos, Fanged Fris­bees, and Ev­er-​Bash­ing Boomerangs. The full list com­pris­es some four hun­dred and thir­ty-​sev­en items, I be­lieve, and can be viewed in Mr. Filch's of­fice, if any­body would like to check it.”

The cor­ners of Dum­ble­dore's mouth twitched. He con­tin­ued, "As ev­er, I would like to re­mind you all that the for­est on the grounds is out-​of-​bounds to stu­dents, as is the vil­lage of Hogsmeade to all be­low third year.

“It is al­so my painful du­ty to in­form you that the In­ter-​House Quid­ditch Cup will not take place this year.”

“What?” Har­ry gasped. He looked around at Fred and George, his fel­low mem­bers of the Quid­ditch team. They were mouthing sound­less­ly at Dum­ble­dore, ap­par­ent­ly too ap­palled to speak. Dumb­he­do­re went on, “This is due to an event that will be start­ing in Oc­to­ber, and con­tin­uing through­out the school year, tak­ing up much of the teach­ers' time and en­er­gy - but I am sure you will all en­joy it im­mense­ly. I have great plea­sure in an­nounc­ing that this year at Hog­warts -”

But at that mo­ment, there was a deaf­en­ing rum­ble of thun­der and the doors of the Great Hall banged open.

A man stood in the door­way, lean­ing up­on a long staff, shroud­ed in a black trav­el­ing cloak. Ev­ery head in the Great Hall swiveled to­ward the stranger, sud­den­ly bright­ly il­lu­mi­nat­ed by a fork of light­ning that flashed across the ceil­ing. He low­ered his hood, shook out a long mane of griz­zled, dark gray hair, then be­gan to walk up to­ward the teach­ers' ta­ble.

A dull clunk echoed through the Hall on his ev­ery oth­er step. He reached the end of the top ta­ble, turned right, and limped heav­ily to­ward Dum­ble­dore. An­oth­er flash of light­ning crossed the ceil­ing. Hermione gasped.

The light­ning had thrown the man's face in­to sharp re­lief, and it was a face un­like any Har­ry had ev­er seen.It looked as though it had been carved out of weath­ered wood by some­one who had on­ly the vaguest idea of what hu­man faces are sup­posed to look like, and was none too skilled with a chis­el. Ev­ery inch of skin seemed to be scarred. The mouth looked like a di­ag­onal gash, and a large chunk of the nose was miss­ing. But it was the man's eyes that made him fright­en­ing.

One of them was small, dark, and beady. The oth­er was large, round as a coin, and a vivid, elec­tric blue. The blue eye was mov­ing cease­less­ly, with­out blink­ing, and was rolling up, down, and from side to side, quite in­de­pen­dent­ly of the nor­mal eye - and then it rolled right over, point­ing in­to the back of the man's head, so that all they could see was white­ness.

The stranger reached Dum­ble­dore. He stretched out a hand that was as bad­ly scarred as his face, and Dumb­he­do­re shook it, mut­ter­ing words Har­ry couldn't hear. He seemed to be mak­ing some in­quiry of the stranger, who shook his head un­smil­ing­ly and replied in an un­der­tone. Dum­ble­dore nod­ded and ges­tured the man to the emp­ty seat on his right-​hand side.

The stranger sat down, shook his mane of dark gray hair out of his face, pulled a plate of sausages to­ward him, raised it to what was left of his nose, and sniffed it. He then took a small knife out of his pock­et, speared a sausage on the end of it, and be­gan to eat. His nor­mal eye was fixed up­on the sausages, but the blue eye was still dart­ing rest­less­ly around in its sock­et, tak­ing in the Hall and the stu­dents.

“May I in­tro­duce our new De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er?” said Dum­ble­dore bright­ly in­to the si­lence. “Pro­fes­sor Moody.”

It was usu­al for new staff mem­bers to be greet­ed with ap­plause, but none of the staff or stu­dents chapped ex­cept Dum­ble­dore and Ha­grid, who both put their hands to­geth­er and ap­plaud­ed, but the sound echoed dis­mal­ly in­to the si­lence, and they stopped fair­ly quick­ly. Ev­ery­one else seemed too trans­fixed by Moody's bizarre ap­pear­ance to do more than stare at him.

“Moody?” Har­ry mut­tered to Ron. “Mad-​Eye Moody? The one your dad went to help this morn­ing?”

“Must be,” said Ron in a low, awed voice.

“What hap­pened to him?” Hermione whis­pered. “What hap­pened to his face?”

“Dun­no,” Ron whis­pered back, watch­ing Moody with fas­ci­na­tion.

Moody seemed to­tal­ly in­dif­fer­ent to his less-​than-​warm wel­come. Ig­nor­ing the jug of pump­kin juice in front of him, he reached again in­to his trav­el­ing cloak, pulled out a hip flask, and took a long draught from it. As he lift­ed his arm to drink, his cloak was pulled a few inch­es from the ground, and Har­ry saw, be­low the ta­ble, sev­er­al inch­es of carved wood­en leg, end­ing in a clawed foot.

Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat.

“As I was say­ing,” he said, smil­ing at the sea of stu­dents be­fore him, all of whom were still gaz­ing trans­fixed at Mad-​Eye Moody, “we are to have the hon­or of host­ing a very ex­cit­ing event over the com­ing months, an event that has not been held for over a cen­tu­ry. It is my very great plea­sure to in­form you that the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment will be tak­ing place at Hog­warts this year.”

“You're JOK­ING!” said Fred Weasley loud­ly.

The ten­sion that had filled the Hall ev­er since Moody's ar­rival sud­den­ly broke. Near­ly ev­ery­one laughed, and Dum­ble­dore chuck­led ap­pre­cia­tive­ly.

“I am not jok­ing, Mr. Weasley,” he said, “though now that you men­tion it, I did hear an ex­cel­lent one over the sum­mer about a troll, a hag, and a lep­rechaun who all go in­to a bar.”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall cleared her throat loud­ly.

“Er - but maybe this is not the time…no…” said Dum­ble­dore, "where was I? Ah yes, the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment…well, some of you will not know what this tour­na­ment in­volves, so I hope those who do know will for­give me for giv­ing a short ex­pla­na­tion, and al­low their at­ten­tion to wan­der freely.

“The Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment was first es­tab­lished some sev­en hun­dred years ago as a friend­ly com­pe­ti­tion be­tween the three largest Eu­ro­pean schools of wiz­ardry: Hog­warts, Beaux­ba­tons, and Durm­strang. A cham­pi­on was se­lect­ed to rep­re­sent each school, and the three cham­pi­ons com­pet­ed in three mag­ical tasks. The schools took it in turns to host the tour­na­ment once ev­ery five years, and it was gen­er­al­ly agreed to be a most ex­cel­lent way of es­tab­lish­ing ties be­tween young witch­es and wiz­ards of dif­fer­ent na­tion­al­ities - un­til, that is, the death toll mount­ed so high that the tour­na­ment was dis­con­tin­ued.”

“Death toll?” Hermione whis­pered, look­ing alarmed. But her anx­iety did not seem to be shared by the ma­jor­ity of stu­dents in the Hall; many of them were whis­per­ing ex­cit­ed­ly to one an­oth­er, and Har­ry him­self was far more in­ter­est­ed in hear­ing about the tour­na­ment than in wor­ry­ing about deaths that had hap­pened hun­dreds of years ago.

“There have been sev­er­al at­tempts over the cen­turies to re­in­state the tour­na­ment,” Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, "none of which has been very suc­cess­ful. How­ev­er, our own de­part­ments of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation and Mag­ical Games and Sports have de­cid­ed the time is ripe for an­oth­er at­tempt. We have worked hard over the sum­mer to en­sure that this time, no cham­pi­on will find him­self or her­self in mor­tal dan­ger.

“The heads of Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang will be ar­riv­ing with their short-​list­ed con­tenders in Oc­to­ber, and the se­lec­tion of the three cham­pi­ons will take place at Hal­loween. An im­par­tial judge will de­cide which stu­dents are most wor­thy to com­pete for the Tri­wiz­ard Cup, the glo­ry of their school, and a thou­sand Galleons per­son­al prize mon­ey.”

“I'm go­ing for it!” Fred Weasley hissed down the ta­ble, his face lit with en­thu­si­asm at the prospect of such glo­ry and rich­es. He was not the on­ly per­son who seemed to be vi­su­al­iz­ing him­self as the Hog­warts cham­pi­on. At ev­ery House ta­ble, Har­ry could see peo­ple ei­ther gaz­ing rapt­ly at Dum­ble­dore, or else whis­per­ing fer­vent­ly to their neigh­bors. But then Dum­ble­dore spoke again, and the Hall qui­et­ed once more.

“Ea­ger though I know all of you will be to bring the Tri­wiz­ard Cup to Hog­warts,” he said, “the heads of the par­tic­ipat­ing schools, along with the Min­istry of Mag­ic, have agreed to im­pose an age re­stric­tion on con­tenders this year. On­ly stu­dents who are of age - that is to say, sev­en­teen years or old­er - will be al­lowed to put for­ward their names for con­sid­er­ation. This -” Dum­ble­dore raised his voice slight­ly, for sev­er­al peo­ple had made nois­es of out­rage at these words, and the Weasley twins were sud­den­ly look­ing fu­ri­ous - “is a mea­sure we feel is nec­es­sary, giv­en that the tour­na­ment tasks will still be dif­fi­cult and dan­ger­ous, what­ev­er pre­cau­tions we take, and it is high­ly un­like­ly that stu­dents be­low sixth and sev­enth year will be able to cope with them. I will per­son­al­ly be en­sur­ing that no un­der­age stu­dent hood­winks our im­par­tial judge in­to mak­ing them Hog­warts cham­pi­on.” His light blue eyes twin­kled as they flick­ered over Fred's and George's muti­nous faces. "I there­fore beg you not to waste your time sub­mit­ting your­self if you are un­der sev­en­teen.

“The del­ega­tions from Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang will be ar­riv­ing in Oc­to­ber and re­main­ing with us for the greater part of this year. I know that you will all ex­tend ev­ery cour­tesy to our for­eign guests while they are with us, and will give your whole-​heart­ed sup­port to the Hog­warts cham­pi­on when he or she is se­lect­ed. And now, it is late, and I know how im­por­tant it is to you all to be alert and rest­ed as you en­ter your lessons to­mor­row morn­ing. Bed­time! Chop chop!”

Dum­ble­dore sat down again and turned to talk to Mad-​Eye Moody. There was a great scrap­ing and bang­ing as all the stu­dents got to their feet and swarmed to­ward the dou­ble doors in­to the en­trance hall.

“They can't do that!” said George Weasley, who had not joined the crowd mov­ing to­ward the door, but was stand­ing up and glar­ing at Dum­ble­dore. “We're sev­en­teen in April, why can't we have a shot?”

“They're not stop­ping me en­ter­ing,” said Fred stub­born­ly, al­so scowl­ing at the top ta­ble. “The cham­pi­ons'll get to do all sorts of stuff you'd nev­er be al­lowed to do nor­mal­ly. And a thou­sand Galleons prize mon­ey!”

“Yeah,” said Ron, a far­away look on his face. “Yeah, a thou­sand Galleons.…”

“Come on,” said Hermione, “we'll be the on­ly ones left here if you don't move.”

Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George set off for the en­trance hall, Fred and George de­bat­ing the ways in which Dum­ble­dore might stop those who were un­der sev­en­teen from en­ter­ing the tour­na­ment.

“Who's this im­par­tial judge who's go­ing to de­cide who the cham­pi­ons are?” said Har­ry.

“Dun­no,” said Fred, “but it's them we'll have to fool. I reck­on a cou­ple of drops of Ag­ing Po­tion might do it, George…” “Dum­ble­dore knows you're not of age, though,” said Ron.

“Yeah, but he's not the one who de­cides who the cham­pi­on is, is he?” said Fred shrewd­ly. “Sounds to me like once this judge knows who wants to en­ter, he'll choose the best from each school and nev­er mind how old they are. Dum­ble­dore's try­ing to stop us giv­ing our names.” “Peo­ple have died, though!” said Hermione in a wor­ried voice as they walked through a door con­cealed be­hind a tapestry and start­ed up an­oth­er, nar­row­er stair­case.

“Yeah,” said Fred air­ily, “but that was years ago, wasn't it? Any­way, where's the fun with­out a bit of risk? Hey, Ron, what if we find out how to get 'round Dum­ble­dore? Fan­cy en­ter­ing?”

“What d'you reck­on?” Ron asked Har­ry. “Be cool to en­ter, wouldn't it? But I s'pose they might want some­one old­er….Dun­no if we've learned enough…”

“I def­inite­ly haven't,” came Neville's gloomy voice from be­hind Fred and George.

“I ex­pect my gran'd want me to try, though. She's al­ways go­ing on about how I should be up­hold­ing the fam­ily hon­or. I'll just have to - oops…”

Neville's foot had sunk right through a step halfway up the stair­case. There were many of these trick stairs at Hog­warts; it was sec­ond na­ture to most of the old­er stu­dents to jump this par­tic­ular step, but Neville's mem­ory was no­to­ri­ous­ly poor. Har­ry and Ron seized him un­der the armpits and pulled him out, while a suit of ar­mor at the top of the stairs creaked and clanked, laugh­ing wheezi­ly. “Shut it, you,” said Ron, bang­ing down its vi­sor as they passed.

They made their way up to the en­trance to Gryffind­or Tow­er, which was con­cealed be­hind a large por­trait of a fat la­dy in a pink silk dress.

“Pass­word?” she said as they ap­proached.

“Balder­dash,” said George, “a pre­fect down­stairs told me.”

The por­trait swung for­ward to re­veal a hole in the wall through which they all climbed. A crack­ling fire warmed the cir­cu­lar com­mon room, which was full of squashy arm­chairs and ta­bles. Hermione cast the mer­ri­ly danc­ing flames a dark look, and Har­ry dis­tinct­ly heard her mut­ter “Slave la­bor” be­fore bid­ding them good night and dis­ap­pear­ing through the door­way to the girls' dor­mi­to­ry.

Har­ry, Ron, and Neville climbed up the last, spi­ral stair­case un­til they reached their own dor­mi­to­ry, which was sit­uat­ed at the top of the tow­er. Five four-​poster beds with deep crim­son hang­ings stood against the walls, each with its own­er's trunk at the foot. Dean and Sea­mus were al­ready get­ting in­to bed; Sea­mus had pinned his Ire­land rosette to his head­board, and Dean had tacked up a poster of Vik­tor Krum over his bed­side ta­ble. His old poster of the West Ham foot­ball team was pinned right next to it.

“Men­tal,” Ron sighed, shak­ing his head at the com­plete­ly sta­tion­ary soc­cer play­ers.

Har­ry, Ron, and Neville got in­to their pa­ja­mas and in­to bed. Some­one - a house-​elf, no doubt - had placed warm­ing pans be­tween the sheets. It was ex­treme­ly com­fort­able, ly­ing there in bed and lis­ten­ing to the storm rag­ing out­side.

“I might go in for it, you know,” Ron said sleep­ily through the dark­ness, “if Fred and George find out how to…the tour­na­ment.…you nev­er know, do you?”

“S'pose not.…”

Har­ry rolled over in bed, a se­ries of daz­zling new pic­tures form­ing in his mind's eye….He had hood­winked the im­par­tial judge in­to be­liev­ing he was sev­en­teen.…he had be­come Hog­warts cham­pi­on…he was stand­ing on the grounds, his arms raised in tri­umph in front of the whole school, all of whom were ap­plaud­ing and scream­ing…he had just won the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. Cho's face stood out par­tic­ular­ly clear­ly in the blurred crowd, her face glow­ing with ad­mi­ra­tion….

Har­ry grinned in­to his pil­low, ex­cep­tion­al­ly glad that Ron couldn't see what he could.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTEEN


MAD-​EYE MOODY



T he storm had blown it­self out by the fol­low­ing morn­ing, though the ceil­ing in the Great Hall was still gloomy; heavy clouds of pewter gray swirled over­head as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione ex­am­ined their new course sched­ules at break­fast. A few seats along, Fred, George, and Lee Jor­dan were dis­cussing mag­ical meth­ods of ag­ing them­selves and bluff­ing their way in­to the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment.

“To­day's not bad…out­side all morn­ing,” said Ron, who was run­ning his fin­ger down the Mon­day col­umn of his sched­ule. “Her­bol­ogy with the Huf­flepuffs and Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures…damn it, we're still with the Slytherins….”

“Dou­ble Div­ina­tion this af­ter­noon,” Har­ry groaned, look­ing down. Div­ina­tion was his least fa­vorite sub­ject, apart from Po­tions. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney kept pre­dict­ing Har­ry's death, which he found ex­treme­ly an­noy­ing.

“You should have giv­en it up like me, shouldn't you?” said Hermione briskly, but­ter­ing her­self some toast. “Then you'd be do­ing some­thing sen­si­ble like Arith­man­cy.”

“You're eat­ing again, I no­tice,” said Ron, watch­ing Hermione adding lib­er­al amounts of jam to her toast too.

“I've de­cid­ed there are bet­ter ways of mak­ing a stand about elf rights,” said Hermione haugh­ti­ly.

“Yeah…and you were hun­gry,” said Ron, grin­ning.

There was a sud­den rustling noise above them, and a hun­dred owls came soar­ing through the open win­dows car­ry­ing the morn­ing mail. In­stinc­tive­ly, Har­ry looked up, but there was no sign of white among the mass of brown and gray. The owls cir­cled the ta­bles, look­ing for the peo­ple to whom their let­ters and pack­ages were ad­dressed. A large tawny owl soared down to Neville Long­bot­tom and de­posit­ed a par­cel in­to his lap - Neville al­most al­ways for­got to pack some­thing. On the oth­er side of the Hall Dra­co Mal­foy's ea­gle owl had land­ed on his shoul­der, car­ry­ing what looked like his usu­al sup­ply of sweets and cakes from home. Try­ing to ig­nore the sink­ing feel­ing of dis­ap­point­ment in his stom­ach, Har­ry re­turned to his por­ridge. Was it pos­si­ble that some­thing had hap­pened to Hed­wig, and that Sir­ius hadn't even got his let­ter?

His pre­oc­cu­pa­tion last­ed all the way across the sod­den veg­etable patch un­til they ar­rived in green­house three, but here he was dis­tract­ed by Pro­fes­sor Sprout show­ing the class the ugli­est plants Har­ry had ev­er seen. In­deed, they looked less like plants than thick, black, gi­ant slugs, pro­trud­ing ver­ti­cal­ly out of the soil. Each was squirm­ing slight­ly and had a num­ber of large, shiny swellings up­on it, which ap­peared to be full of liq­uid.

“Bubo­tu­bers,” Pro­fes­sor Sprout told them briskly. “They need squeez­ing. You will col­lect the pus -”

“The what?” said Sea­mus Finni­gan, sound­ing re­volt­ed.

“Pus, Finni­gan, pus,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout, “and it's ex­treme­ly valu­able, so don't waste it. You will col­lect the pus, I say, in these bot­tles. Wear your drag­on-​hide gloves; it can do fun­ny things to the skin when undi­lut­ed, bubo­tu­ber pus.”

Squeez­ing the bubo­tu­bers was dis­gust­ing, but odd­ly sat­is­fy­ing. As each swelling was popped, a large amount of thick yel­low­ish-​green liq­uid burst forth, which smelled strong­ly of petrol. They caught it in the bot­tles as Pro­fes­sor Sprout had in­di­cat­ed, and by the end of the les­son had col­lect­ed sev­er­al pints.

“This'll keep Madam Pom­frey hap­py,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout, stop­per­ing the last bot­tle with a cork. “An ex­cel­lent rem­edy for the more stub­born forms of ac­ne, bubo­tu­ber pus. Should stop stu­dents re­sort­ing to des­per­ate mea­sures to rid them­selves of pim­ples.”

“Like poor Eloise Midgen,” said Han­nah Ab­bott, a Huf­flepuff, in a hushed voice. “She tried to curse hers off.”

“Sil­ly girl,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout, shak­ing her head. “But Madam Pom­frey fixed her nose back on in the end.”

A boom­ing bell echoed from the cas­tle across the wet grounds, sig­nal­ing the end of the les­son, and the class sep­arat­ed; the Huf­flepuffs climb­ing the stone steps for Trans­fig­ura­tion, and the Gryffind­ors head­ing in the oth­er di­rec­tion, down the slop­ing lawn to­ward Ha­grid's small wood­en cab­in, which stood on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est.

Ha­grid was stand­ing out­side his hut, one hand on the col­lar of his enor­mous black boarhound, Fang. There were sev­er­al open wood­en crates on the ground at his feet, and Fang was whim­per­ing and strain­ing at his col­lar, ap­par­ent­ly keen to in­ves­ti­gate the con­tents more close­ly. As they drew near­er, an odd rat­tling noise reached their ears, punc­tu­at­ed by what sound­ed like mi­nor ex­plo­sions.

“Mornin'!” Ha­grid said, grin­ning at Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione. “Be'er wait fer the Slytherins, they won' want ter miss this - Blast-​End­ed Skrewts!”

“Come again?” said Ron.

Ha­grid point­ed down in­to the crates.

“Eu­rgh!” squealed Laven­der Brown, jump­ing back­ward.

“Eu­rgh” just about summed up the Blast-​End­ed Skrewts in Har­ry's opin­ion. They looked like de­formed, shell-​less lob­sters, hor­ri­bly pale and slimy-​look­ing, with legs stick­ing out in very odd places and no vis­ible heads. There were about a hun­dred of them in each crate, each about six inch­es long, crawl­ing over one an­oth­er, bump­ing blind­ly in­to the sides of the box­es. They were giv­ing off a very pow­er­ful smell of rot­ting fish. Ev­ery now and then, sparks would fly out of the end of a skrewt, and with a small phut, it would be pro­pelled for­ward sev­er­al inch­es.

“On'y jus' hatched,” said Ha­grid proud­ly, “so yeh'll be able ter raise 'em yer­selves! Thought we'd make a bit of a project of it!”

“And why would we want to raise them?” said a cold voice.

The Slytherins had ar­rived. The speak­er was Dra­co Mal­foy. Crabbe and Goyle were chuck­ling ap­pre­cia­tive­ly at his words.

Ha­grid looked stumped at the ques­tion.

“I mean, what do they do?” asked Mal­foy. “What is the point of them?”

Ha­grid opened his mouth, ap­par­ent­ly think­ing hard; there was a few sec­onds' pause, then he said rough­ly, “Tha's next les­son, Mal­foy. Yer jus' feed­in' 'em to­day. Now, yeh'll wan' ter try 'em on a few diff'rent things - I've nev­er had 'em be­fore, not sure what they'll go fer - I got ant eggs an' frog liv­ers an' a bit o' grass snake - just try 'em out with a bit of each.”

“First pus and now this,” mut­tered Sea­mus.

Noth­ing but deep af­fec­tion for Ha­grid could have made Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione pick up squelchy hand­fuls of frog liv­er and low­er them in­to the crates to tempt the Blast-​End­ed Skrewts. Har­ry couldn't sup­press the sus­pi­cion that the whole thing was en­tire­ly point­less, be­cause the skrewts didn't seem to have mouths.

“Ouch!” yelled Dean Thomas af­ter about ten min­utes. “It got me.”

Ha­grid hur­ried over to him, look­ing anx­ious.

“Its end ex­plod­ed!” said Dean an­gri­ly, show­ing Ha­grid a burn on his hand.

“Ah, yeah, that can hap­pen when they blast off,” said Ha­grid, nod­ding.

“Eu­rgh!” said Laven­der Brown again. “Eu­rgh, Ha­grid, what's that pointy thing on it?”

“Ah, some of 'em have got stings,” said Ha­grid en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly (Laven­der quick­ly with­drew her hand from the box). “I reck­on they're the males.…The fe­males've got sor­ta suck­er things on their bel­lies….I think they might be ter suck blood.”

“Well, I can cer­tain­ly see why we're try­ing to keep them alive,” said Mal­foy sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “Who wouldn't want pets that can burn, sting, and bite all at once?”

“Just be­cause they're not very pret­ty, it doesn't mean they're not use­ful,” Hermione snapped. “Drag­on blood's amaz­ing­ly mag­ical, but you wouldn't want a drag­on for a pet, would you?”

Har­ry and Ron grinned at Ha­grid, who gave them a furtive smile from be­hind his bushy beard. Ha­grid would have liked noth­ing bet­ter than a pet drag­on, as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione knew on­ly too well - he had owned one for a brief pe­ri­od dur­ing their first year, a vi­cious Nor­we­gian Ridge­back by the name of Nor­bert. Ha­grid sim­ply loved mon­strous crea­tures, the more lethal, the bet­ter.

“Well, at least the skrewts are small,” said Ron as they made their way back up to the cas­tle for lunch an hour lat­er.

“They are now,” said Hermione in an ex­as­per­at­ed voice, “but once Ha­grid's found out what they eat, I ex­pect they'll be six feet long.”

“Well, that won't mat­ter if they turn out to cure sea­sick­ness or some­thing, will it?” said Ron, grin­ning sly­ly at her.

“You know per­fect­ly well I on­ly said that to shut Mal­foy up,” said Hermione. “As a mat­ter of fact I think he's right. The best thing to do would be to stamp on the lot of them be­fore they start at­tack­ing us all.”

They sat down at the Gryffind­or ta­ble and helped them­selves to lamb chops and pota­toes. Hermione be­gan to eat so fast that Har­ry and Ron stared at her.

“Er - is this the new stand on elf rights?” said Ron. “You're go­ing to make your­self puke in­stead?”

“No,” said Hermione, with as much dig­ni­ty as she could muster with her mouth bulging with sprouts. “I just want to get to the li­brary.”

“What?” said Ron in dis­be­lief. “Hermione - it's the first day back! We haven't even got home­work yet!”

Hermione shrugged and con­tin­ued to shov­el down her food as though she had not eat­en for days. Then she leapt to her feet, said, “See you at din­ner!” and de­part­ed at high speed.

When the bell rang to sig­nal the start of af­ter­noon lessons, Har­ry and Ron set off for North Tow­er where, at the top of a tight­ly spi­ral­ing stair­case, a sil­ver steplad­der led to a cir­cu­lar trap­door in the ceil­ing, and the room where Pro­fes­sor Trelawney lived.

The fa­mil­iar sweet per­fume spread­ing from the fire met their nos­trils as they emerged at the top of the steplad­der. As ev­er, the cur­tains were all closed; the cir­cu­lar room was bathed in a dim red­dish light cast by the many lamps, which were all draped with scarves and shawls. Har­ry and Ron walked through the mass of oc­cu­pied chintz chairs and poufs that clut­tered the room, and sat down at the same small cir­cu­lar ta­ble.

“Good day,” said the misty voice of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney right be­hind Har­ry, mak­ing him jump.

A very thin wom­an with enor­mous glass­es that made her eyes ap­pear far too large for her face, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was peer­ing down at Har­ry with the trag­ic ex­pres­sion she al­ways wore when­ev­er she saw him. The usu­al large amount of beads, chains, and ban­gles glit­tered up­on her per­son in the fire­light.

“You are pre­oc­cu­pied, my dear,” she said mourn­ful­ly to Har­ry. “My in­ner eye sees past your brave face to the trou­bled soul with­in. And I re­gret to say that your wor­ries are not base­less. I see dif­fi­cult times ahead for you, alas…most dif­fi­cult…I fear the thing you dread will in­deed come to pass.…and per­haps soon­er than you think…”

Her voice dropped al­most to a whis­per. Ron rolled his eyes at Har­ry, who looked stoni­ly back. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney swept past them and seat­ed her­self in a large winged arm­chair be­fore the fire, fac­ing the class. Laven­der Brown and Par­vati Patil, who deeply ad­mired Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, were sit­ting on poufs very close to her.

“My dears, it is time for us to con­sid­er the stars,” she said. “The move­ments of the plan­ets and the mys­te­ri­ous por­tents they re­veal on­ly to those who un­der­stand the steps of the ce­les­tial dance. Hu­man des­tiny may be de­ci­phered by the plan­etary rays, which in­ter­min­gle.…”

But Har­ry's thoughts had drift­ed. The per­fumed fire al­ways made him feel sleepy and dull-​wit­ted, and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's ram­bling talks on for­tune-​telling nev­er held him ex­act­ly spell­bound - though he couldn't help think­ing about what she had just said to him. “I fear the thing you dread will in­deed come to pass…”

But Hermione was right, Har­ry thought ir­ri­ta­bly, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney re­al­ly was an old fraud. He wasn't dread­ing any­thing at the mo­ment at all…well, un­less you count­ed his fears that Sir­ius had been caught…but what did Pro­fes­sor Trelawney know? He had long since come to the con­clu­sion that her brand of for­tunetelling was re­al­ly no more than lucky guess­work and a spooky man­ner.

Ex­cept, of course, for that time at the end of last term, when she had made the pre­dic­tion about Volde­mort ris­ing again…and Dum­ble­dore him­self had said that he thought that trance had been gen­uine, when Har­ry had de­scribed it to him.

“Har­ry!” Ron mut­tered.

“What?”

Har­ry looked around; the whole class was star­ing at him. He sat up straight; he had been al­most doz­ing off, lost in the heat and his thoughts.

“I was say­ing, my dear, that you were clear­ly born un­der the bale­ful in­flu­ence of Sat­urn,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, a faint note of re­sent­ment in her voice at the fact that he had ob­vi­ous­ly not been hang­ing on her words.

“Born un­der - what, sor­ry?” said Har­ry.

“Sat­urn, dear, the plan­et Sat­urn!” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, sound­ing def­inite­ly ir­ri­tat­ed that he wasn't riv­et­ed by this news. “I was say­ing that Sat­urn was sure­ly in a po­si­tion of pow­er in the heav­ens at the mo­ment of your birth.…Your dark hair…your mean stature…trag­ic loss­es so young in life…I think I am right in say­ing, my dear, that you were born in mid­win­ter?”

“No,” said Har­ry, “I was born in Ju­ly.”

Ron hasti­ly turned his laugh in­to a hack­ing cough.

Half an hour lat­er, each of them had been giv­en a com­pli­cat­ed cir­cu­lar chart, and was at­tempt­ing to fill in the po­si­tion of the plan­ets at their mo­ment of birth. It was dull work, re­quir­ing much con­sul­ta­tion of timeta­bles and cal­cu­la­tion of an­gles.

“I've got two Nep­tunes here,” said Har­ry af­ter a while, frown­ing down at his piece of parch­ment, “that can't be right, can it?”

“Aaaaah,” said Ron, im­itat­ing Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's mys­ti­cal whis­per, “when two Nep­tunes ap­pear in the sky, it is a sure sign that a midget in glass­es is be­ing born, Har­ry….”

Sea­mus and Dean, who were work­ing near­by, snig­gered loud­ly, though not loud­ly enough to mask the ex­cit­ed squeals from Laven­der Brown - “Oh Pro­fes­sor, look! I think I've got an unaspect­ed plan­et! Oooh, which one's that, Pro­fes­sor?”

“It is Uranus, my dear,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, peer­ing down at the chart.

“Can I have a look at Uranus too, Laven­der?” said Ron.

Most un­for­tu­nate­ly, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney heard him, and it was this, per­haps, that made her give them so much home­work at the end of the class.

“A de­tailed anal­ysis of the way the plan­etary move­ments in the com­ing month will af­fect you, with ref­er­ence to your per­son­al chart,” she snapped, sound­ing much more like Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall than her usu­al airy-​fairy self. “I want it ready to hand in next Mon­day, and no ex­cus­es!”

“Mis­er­able old bat,” said Ron bit­ter­ly as they joined the crowds de­scend­ing the stair­cas­es back to the Great Hall and din­ner. “That'll take all week­end, that will…”

“Lots of home­work?” said Hermione bright­ly, catch­ing up with them. “Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor didn't give us any at all!”

“Well, bul­ly for Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor,” said Ron mood­ily.

They reached the en­trance hall, which was packed with peo­ple queu­ing for din­ner. They had just joined the end of the line, when a loud voice rang out be­hind them.

“Weasley! Hey, Weasley!”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione turned. Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle were stand­ing there, each look­ing thor­ough­ly pleased about some­thing.

“What?” said Ron short­ly.

“Your dad's in the pa­per, Weasley!” said Mal­foy, bran­dish­ing a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet and speak­ing very loud­ly, so that ev­ery­one in the packed en­trance hall could hear. "Lis­ten to this!



FUR­THER MIS­TAKES AT THE MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC

It seems as though the Min­istry of Mag­ic's trou­bles are not yet at an end, writes Ri­ta Skeeter, Spe­cial Cor­re­spon­dent. Re­cent­ly un­der fire for its poor crowd con­trol at the Quid­ditch World Cup, and still un­able to ac­count for the dis­ap­pear­ance of one of its witch­es, the Min­istry was plunged in­to fresh em­bar­rass­ment yes­ter­day by the an­tics of Arnold Weasley, of the Mis­use of Mug­gle Ar­ti­facts Of­fice."



Mal­foy looked up.

“Imag­ine them not even get­ting his name right, Weasley. It's al­most as though he's a com­plete nonen­ti­ty, isn't it?” he crowed.

Ev­ery­one in the en­trance hall was lis­ten­ing now. Mal­foy straight­ened the pa­per with a flour­ish and read on:



Arnold Weasley, who was charged with pos­ses­sion of a fly­ing car two years ago, was yes­ter­day in­volved in a tus­sle with sev­er­al Mug­gle law-​keep­ers (“po­lice­men”) over a num­ber of high­ly ag­gres­sive dust­bins. Mr. Weasley ap­pears to have rushed to the aid of “Mad-​Eye” Moody, the aged ex-​Au­ror who re­tired from the Min­istry when no longer able to tell the dif­fer­ence be­tween a hand­shake and at­tempt­ed mur­der. Un­sur­pris­ing­ly, Mr. Weasley found, up­on ar­rival at Mr. Moody's heav­ily guard­ed house, that Mr. Moody had once again raised a false alarm. Mr. Weasley was forced to mod­ify sev­er­al mem­ories be­fore he could es­cape from the po­lice­men, but re­fused to an­swer Dai­ly Prophet ques­tions about why he had in­volved the Min­istry in such an undig­ni­fied and po­ten­tial­ly em­bar­rass­ing scene.



“And there's a pic­ture, Weasley!” said Mal­foy, flip­ping the pa­per over and hold­ing it up. “A pic­ture of your par­ents out­side their house - if you can call it a house! Your moth­er could do with los­ing a bit of weight, couldn't she?”

Ron was shak­ing with fury. Ev­ery­one was star­ing at him.

“Get stuffed, Mal­foy,” said Har­ry. “C'mon, Ron…”

“Oh yeah, you were stay­ing with them this sum­mer, weren't you, Pot­ter?” sneered Mal­foy. “So tell me, is his moth­er re­al­ly that porky, or is it just the pic­ture?”

“You know your moth­er, Mal­foy?” said Har­ry - both he and Hermione had grabbed the back of Ron's robes to stop him from launch­ing him­self at Mal­foy - “that ex­pres­sion she's got, like she's got dung un­der her nose? Has she al­ways looked like that, or was it just be­cause you were with her?”

Mal­foy's pale face went slight­ly pink.

“Don't you dare in­sult my moth­er, Pot­ter.”

“Keep your fat mouth shut, then,” said Har­ry, turn­ing away.

BANG!

Sev­er­al peo­ple screamed - Har­ry felt some­thing white-​hot graze the side of his face - he plunged his hand in­to his robes for his wand, but be­fore he'd even touched it, he heard a sec­ond loud BANG, and a roar that echoed through the en­trance hall.

“OH NO YOU DON'T, LAD­DIE!”

Har­ry spun around. Pro­fes­sor Moody was limp­ing down the mar­ble stair­case. His wand was out and it was point­ing right at a pure white fer­ret, which was shiv­er­ing on the stone-​flagged floor, ex­act­ly where Mal­foy had been stand­ing.

There was a ter­ri­fied si­lence in the en­trance hall. No­body but Moody was mov­ing a mus­cle. Moody turned to look at Har­ry - at least, his nor­mal eye was look­ing at Har­ry; the oth­er one was point­ing in­to the back of his head.

“Did he get you?” Moody growled. His voice was low and grav­el­ly.

“No,” said Har­ry, “missed.”

“LEAVE IT!” Moody shout­ed.

“Leave - what?” Har­ry said, be­wil­dered.

“Not you - him!” Moody growled, jerk­ing his thumb over his shoul­der at Crabbe, who had just frozen, about to pick up the white fer­ret. It seemed that Moody's rolling eye was mag­ical and could see out of the back of his head.

Moody start­ed to limp to­ward Crabbe, Goyle, and the fer­ret, which gave a ter­ri­fied squeak and took off, streak­ing to­ward the dun­geons.

“I don't think so!” roared Moody, point­ing his wand at the fer­ret again - it flew ten feet in­to the air, fell with a smack to the floor, and then bounced up­ward once more.

“I don't like peo­ple who at­tack when their op­po­nent's back's turned,” growled Moody as the fer­ret bounced high­er and high­er, squeal­ing in pain. “Stink­ing, cow­ard­ly, scum­my thing to do…”

The fer­ret flew through the air, its legs and tail flail­ing help­less­ly.

“Nev­er - do - that - again -” said Moody, speak­ing each word as the fer­ret hit the stone floor and bounced up­ward again.

“Pro­fes­sor Moody!” said a shocked voice.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was com­ing down the mar­ble stair­case with her arms full of books.

“Hel­lo, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall,” said Moody calm­ly, bounc­ing the fer­ret still high­er.

“What - what are you do­ing?” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, her eyes fol­low­ing the bounc­ing fer­ret's progress through the air.

“Teach­ing,” said Moody.

“Teach - Moody, is that a stu­dent?” shrieked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, the books spilling out of her arms.

“Yep,” said Moody.

“No!” cried Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, run­ning down the stairs and pulling out her wand; a mo­ment lat­er, with a loud snap­ping noise, Dra­co Mal­foy had reap­peared, ly­ing in a heap on the floor with his sleek blond hair all over his now bril­liant­ly pink face. He got to his feet, winc­ing.

“Moody, we nev­er use Trans­fig­ura­tion as a pun­ish­ment!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall wealdy. “Sure­ly Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore told you that?”

“He might've men­tioned it, yeah,” said Moody, scratch­ing his chin un­con­cerned­ly, “but I thought a good sharp shock -”

“We give de­ten­tions, Moody! Or speak to the of­fend­er's Head of House!”

“I'll do that, then,” said Moody, star­ing at Mal­foy with great dis­like.

Mal­foy, whose pale eyes were still wa­ter­ing with pain and hu­mil­ia­tion, looked malev­olent­ly up at Moody and mut­tered some­thing in which the words “my fa­ther” were dis­tin­guish­able.

“Oh yeah?” said Moody qui­et­ly, limp­ing for­ward a few steps, the dull clunk of his wood­en leg echo­ing around the hall. “Well, I know your fa­ther of old, boy.…You tell him Moody's keep­ing a close eye on his son…you tell him that from me.…Now, your Head of House'll be Snape, will it?”

“Yes,” said Mal­foy re­sent­ful­ly.

“An­oth­er old friend,” growled Moody. “I've been look­ing for­ward to a chat with old Snape.…Come on, you…”

And he seized Mal­foy's up­per arm and marched him off to­ward the dun­geons.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stared anx­ious­ly af­ter them for a few mo­ments, then waved her wand at her fall­en books, caus­ing them to soar up in­to the air and back in­to her arms.

“Don't talk to me,” Ron said qui­et­ly to Har­ry and Hermione as they sat down at the Gryffind­or ta­ble a few min­utes lat­er, sur­round­ed by ex­cit­ed talk on all sides about what had just hap­pened.

“Why not?” said Hermione in sur­prise.

“Be­cause I want to fix that in my mem­ory for­ev­er,” said Ron, his eyes closed and an up­lift­ed ex­pres­sion on his face. “Dra­co Mal­foy, the amaz­ing bounc­ing fer­ret.”

Har­ry and Hermione both laughed, and Hermione be­gan dol­ing beef casse­role on­to each of their plates.

“He could have re­al­ly hurt Mal­foy, though,” she said. “It was good, re­al­ly, that Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stopped it -”

“Hermione!” said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly, his eyes snap­ping open again, “you're ru­in­ing the best mo­ment of my life!”

Hermione made an im­pa­tient noise and be­gan to eat at top speed again.

“Don't tell me you're go­ing back to the li­brary this evening?” said Har­ry, watch­ing her.

“Got to,” said Hermione thick­ly. “Loads to do.”

“But you told us Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor -”

“It's not school­work,” she said. With­in five min­utes, she had cleared her plate and de­part­ed. No soon­er had she gone than her seat was tak­en by Fred Weasley.

“Moody!” he said. “How cool is he?”

“Be­yond cool,” said George, sit­ting down op­po­site Fred.

“Su­per­cool,” said the twins' best friend, Lee Jor­dan, slid­ing in­to the seat be­side George. “We had him this af­ter­noon,” he told Har­ry and Ron.

“What was it like?” said Har­ry ea­ger­ly.

Fred, George, and Lee ex­changed looks full of mean­ing.

“Nev­er had a les­son like it,” said Fred.

“He knows, man,” said Lee.

“Knows what?” said Ron, lean­ing for­ward.

“Knows what it's like to be out there do­ing it,” said George im­pres­sive­ly.

“Do­ing what?” said Har­ry.

“Fight­ing the Dark Arts,” said Fred.

“He's seen it all,” said George.

“'Maz­ing,” said Lee.

Ron dived in­to his bag for his sched­ule.

“We haven't got him till Thurs­day!” he said in a dis­ap­point­ed voice.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER FOURTEEN


THE UN­FOR­GIV­ABLE CURS­ES



T he next two days passed with­out great in­ci­dent, un­less you count­ed Neville melt­ing his sixth caul­dron in Po­tions. Pro­fes­sor Snape, who seemed to have at­tained new lev­els of vin­dic­tive­ness over the sum­mer, gave Neville de­ten­tion, and Neville re­turned from it in a state of ner­vous col­lapse, hav­ing been made to dis­em­bow­el a bar­rel full of horned toads.

“You know why Snape's in such a foul mood, don't you?” said Ron to Har­ry as they watched Hermione teach­ing Neville a Scour­ing Charm to re­move the frog guts from un­der his fin­ger­nails.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Moody.”

It was com­mon knowl­edge that Snape re­al­ly want­ed the Dark Arts job, and he had now failed to get it for the fourth year run­ning. Snape had dis­liked all of their pre­vi­ous Dark Arts teach­ers, and shown it - but he seemed strange­ly wary of dis­play­ing overt an­imos­ity to Mad-​Eye Moody. In­deed, when­ev­er Har­ry saw the two of them to­geth­er - at meal­times, or when they passed in the cor­ri­dors - he had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that Snape was avoid­ing Moody's eye, whether mag­ical or nor­mal.

“I reck­on Snape's a bit scared of him, you know,” Har­ry said thought­ful­ly.

“Imag­ine if Moody turned Snape in­to a horned toad,” said Ron, his eyes mist­ing over, “and bounced him all around his dun­geon…”

The Gryffind­or fourth years were look­ing for­ward to Moody's first les­son so much that they ar­rived ear­ly on Thurs­day lunchtime and queued up out­side his class­room be­fore the bell had even rung. The on­ly per­son miss­ing was Hermione, who turned up just in time for the les­son.

“Been in the -”

“Li­brary.” Har­ry fin­ished her sen­tence for her. “C'mon, quick, or we won't get de­cent seats.”

They hur­ried in­to three chairs right in front of the teach­er's desk, took out their copies of The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-​Pro­tec­tion, and wait­ed, un­usu­al­ly qui­et. Soon they heard Moody's dis­tinc­tive clunk­ing foot­steps com­ing down the cor­ri­dor, and he en­tered the room, look­ing as strange and fright­en­ing as ev­er. They could just see his clawed, wood­en foot pro­trud­ing from un­der­neath his robes.

“You can put those away,” he growled, stump­ing over to his desk and sit­ting down, “those books. You won't need them.”

They re­turned the books to their bags, Ron look­ing ex­cit­ed.

Moody took out a reg­is­ter, shook his long mane of griz­zled gray hair out of his twist­ed and scarred face, and be­gan to call out names, his nor­mal eye mov­ing steadi­ly down the list while his mag­ical eye swiveled around, fix­ing up­on each stu­dent as he or she an­swered.

“Right then,” he said, when the last per­son had de­clared them­selves present, “I've had a let­ter from Pro­fes­sor Lupin about this class. Seems you've had a pret­ty thor­ough ground­ing in tack­ling Dark crea­tures - you've cov­ered bog­garts, Red Caps, hinky­punks, grindy­lows, Kap­pas, and were­wolves, is that right?”

There was a gen­er­al mur­mur of as­sent.

“But you're be­hind - very be­hind - on deal­ing with curs­es,” said Moody. “So I'm here to bring you up to scratch on what wiz­ards can do to each oth­er. I've got one year to teach you how to deal with Dark -”

“What, aren't you stay­ing?” Ron blurt­ed out.

Moody's mag­ical eye spun around to stare at Ron; Ron looked ex­treme­ly ap­pre­hen­sive, but af­ter a mo­ment Moody smiled - the first time Har­ry had seen him do so. The ef­fect was to make his heav­ily scarred face look more twist­ed and con­tort­ed than ev­er, but it was nev­er­the­less good to know that he ev­er did any­thing as friend­ly as smile. Ron looked deeply re­lieved.

“You'll be Arthur Weasley's son, eh?” Moody said. “Your fa­ther got me out of a very tight cor­ner a few days ago.…Yeah, I'm stay­ing just the one year. Spe­cial fa­vor to Dum­ble­dor.…One year, and then back to my qui­et re­tire­ment.”

He gave a harsh laugh, and then clapped his gnarled hands to­geth­er.

“So - straight in­to it. Curs­es. They come in many strengths and forms. Now, ac­cord­ing to the Min­istry of Mag­ic, I'm sup­posed to teach you coun­ter­curs­es and leave it at that. I'm not sup­posed to show you what il­le­gal Dark curs­es look like un­til you're in the sixth year. You're not sup­posed to be old enough to deal with it till then. But Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore's got a high­er opin­ion of your nerves, he reck­ons you can cope, and I say, the soon­er you know what you're up against, the bet­ter. How are you sup­posed to de­fend your­self against some­thing you've nev­er seen? A wiz­ard who's about to put an il­le­gal curse on you isn't go­ing to tell you what he's about to do. He's not go­ing to do it nice and po­lite to your face. You need to be pre­pared. You need to be alert and watch­ful. You need to put that away, Miss Brown, when I'm talk­ing.”

Laven­der jumped and blushed. She had been show­ing Par­vati her com­plet­ed horo­scope un­der the desk. Ap­par­ent­ly Moody's mag­ical eye could see through sol­id wood, as well as out of the back of his head.

“So…do any of you know which curs­es are most heav­ily pun­ished by wiz­ard­ing law?”

Sev­er­al hands rose ten­ta­tive­ly in­to the air, in­clud­ing Ron's and Hermione's. Moody point­ed at Ron, though his mag­ical eye was still fixed on Laven­der.

“Er,” said Ron ten­ta­tive­ly, “my dad told me about one.…Is it called the Im­perius Curse, or some­thing?”

“Ah, yes,” said Moody ap­pre­cia­tive­ly. “Your fa­ther would know that one. Gave the Min­istry a lot of trou­ble at one time, the Im­perius Curse.”

Moody got heav­ily to his mis­matched feet, opened his desk draw­er, and took out a glass jar. Three large black spi­ders were scut­tling around in­side it. Har­ry felt Ron re­coil slight­ly next to him - Ron hat­ed spi­ders.

Moody reached in­to the jar, caught one of the spi­ders, and held it in the palm of his hand so that they could all see it. He then point­ed his wand at it and mut­tered, “Im­pe­rio!”

The spi­der leapt from Moody's hand on a fine thread of silk and be­gan to swing back­ward and for­ward as though on a trapeze. It stretched out its legs rigid­ly, then did a back flip, break­ing the thread and land­ing on the desk, where it be­gan to cartwheel in cir­cles. Moody jerked his wand, and the spi­der rose on­to two of its hind legs and went in­to what was un­mis­tak­ably a tap dance.

Ev­ery­one was laugh­ing - ev­ery­one ex­cept Moody.

“Think it's fun­ny, do you?” he growled. “You'd like it, would you, if I did it to you?”

The laugh­ter died away al­most in­stant­ly.

“To­tal con­trol,” said Moody qui­et­ly as the spi­der balled it­self up and be­gan to roll over and over. “I could make it jump out of the win­dow, drown it­self, throw it­self down one of your throats…”

Ron gave an in­vol­un­tary shud­der.

“Years back, there were a lot of witch­es and wiz­ards be­ing con­trolled by the Im­perius Curse,” said Moody, and Har­ry knew he was talk­ing about the days in which Volde­mort had been all-​pow­er­ful. "Some job for the Min­istry, try­ing to sort out who was be­ing forced to act, and who was act­ing of their own free will.

“The Im­perius Curse can be fought, and I'll be teach­ing you how, but it takes re­al strength of char­ac­ter, and not ev­ery­one's got it. Bet­ter avoid be­ing hit with it if you can. CON­STANT VIG­ILANCE!” he barked, and ev­ery­one jumped.

Moody picked up the som­er­sault­ing spi­der and threw it back in­to the jar.

“Any­one else know one? An­oth­er il­le­gal curse?”

Hermione's hand flew in­to the air again and so, to Har­ry's slight sur­prise, did Neville's. The on­ly class in which Neville usu­al­ly vol­un­teered in­for­ma­tion was Her­bol­ogy which was eas­ily his best sub­ject. Neville looked sur­prised at his own dar­ing.

“Yes?” said Moody, his mag­ical eye rolling right over to fix on Neville.

“There's one - the Cru­cia­tus Curse,” said Neville in a small but dis­tinct voice.

Moody was look­ing very in­tent­ly at Neville, this time with both eyes.

“Your name's Long­bot­tom?” he said, his mag­ical eye swoop­ing down to check the reg­is­ter again.

Neville nod­ded ner­vous­ly, but Moody made no fur­ther in­quiries. Turn­ing back to the class at large, he reached in­to the jar for the next spi­der and placed it up­on the desk­top, where it re­mained mo­tion­less, ap­par­ent­ly too scared to move.

“The Cru­cia­tus Curse,” said Moody. “Needs to be a bit big­ger for you to get the idea,” he said, point­ing his wand at the spi­der. “En­gor­gio!”

The spi­der swelled. It was now larg­er than a taran­tu­la. Aban­don­ing all pre­tense, Ron pushed his chair back­ward, as far away from Moody's desk as pos­si­ble.

Moody raised his wand again, point­ed it at the spi­der, and mut­tered, “Cru­cio!”

At once, the spi­der's legs bent in up­on its body; it rolled over and be­gan to twitch hor­ri­bly, rock­ing from side to side. No sound came from it, but Har­ry was sure that if it could have giv­en voice, it would have been scream­ing. Moody did not re­move his wand, and the spi­der start­ed to shud­der and jerk more vi­olent­ly -

“Stop it!” Hermione said shril­ly."

Har­ry looked around at her. She was look­ing, not at the spi­der, but at Neville, and Har­ry, fol­low­ing her gaze, saw that Neville's hands were clenched up­on the desk in front of him, his knuck­les white, his eyes wide and hor­ri­fied.

Moody raised his wand. The spi­der's legs re­laxed, but it con­tin­ued to twitch.

“Re­ducio,” Moody mut­tered, and the spi­der shrank back to its prop­er size. He put it back in­to the jar.

“Pain,” said Moody soft­ly. "You don't need thumb­screws or knives to tor­ture some­one if you can per­form the Cru­cia­tus Curse.…That one was very pop­ular once too.

“Right…any­one know any oth­ers?”

Har­ry looked around. From the looks on ev­ery­one's faces, he guessed they were all won­der­ing what was go­ing to hap­pen to the last spi­der. Hermione's hand shook slight­ly as, for the third time, she raised it in­to the air.

“Yes?” said Moody, look­ing at her.

“Ava­da Ke­davra,” Hermione whis­pered.

Sev­er­al peo­ple looked un­easi­ly around at her, in­clud­ing Ron.

“Ah,” said Moody, an­oth­er slight smile twist­ing his lop­sid­ed mouth. “Yes, the last and worst. Ava­da Ke­davra.…the Killing Curse.”

He put his hand in­to the glass jar, and al­most as though it knew what was com­ing, the third spi­der scut­tled fran­ti­cal­ly around the bot­tom of the jar, try­ing to evade Moody's fin­gers, but he trapped it, and placed it up­on the desk­top. It start­ed to scut­tle fran­ti­cal­ly across the wood­en sur­face.

Moody raised his wand, and Har­ry felt a sud­den thrill of fore­bod­ing.

“Ava­da Ke­davra!” Moody roared.

There was a flash of blind­ing green light and a rush­ing sound, as though a vast, in­vis­ible some­thing was soar­ing through the air - in­stan­ta­neous­ly the spi­der rolled over on­to its back, un­marked, but un­mis­tak­ably dead. Sev­er­al of the stu­dents sti­fled cries; Ron had thrown him­self back­ward and al­most top­pled off his seat as the spi­der skid­ded to­ward him.

Moody swept the dead spi­der off the desk on­to the floor.

“Not nice,” he said calm­ly. “Not pleas­ant. And there's no coun­ter­curse. There's no block­ing it. On­ly one known per­son has ev­er sur­vived it, and he's sit­ting right in front of me.”

Har­ry felt his face red­den as Moody's eyes (both of them) looked in­to his own. He could feel ev­ery­one else look­ing around at him too. Har­ry stared at the blank black­board as though fas­ci­nat­ed by it, but not re­al­ly see­ing it at all.…

So that was how his par­ents had died…ex­act­ly like that spi­der. Had they been un­blem­ished and un­marked too? Had they sim­ply seen the flash of green light and heard the rush of speed­ing death, be­fore life was wiped from their bod­ies?

Har­ry had been pic­tur­ing his par­ents' deaths over and over again for three years now, ev­er since he'd found out they had been mur­dered, ev­er since he'd found out what had hap­pened that night: Worm­tail had be­trayed his par­ents' where­abouts to Volde­mort, who had come to find them at their cot­tage. How Volde­mort had killed Har­ry's fa­ther first. How James Pot­ter had tried to hold him off, while he shout­ed at his wife to take Har­ry and run…Volde­mort had ad­vanced on Lily Pot­ter, told her to move aside so that he could kill Har­ry…how she had begged him to kill her in­stead, re­fused to stop shield­ing her son…and so Volde­mort had mur­dered her too, be­fore turn­ing his wand on Har­ry.…

Har­ry knew these de­tails be­cause he had heard his par­ents' voic­es when he had fought the de­men­tors last year - for that was the ter­ri­ble pow­er of the de­men­tors: to force their vic­tims to re­live the worst mem­ories of their lives, and drown, pow­er­less, in their own de­spair.…

Moody was speak­ing again, from a great dis­tance, it seemed to Har­ry. With a mas­sive ef­fort, he pulled him­self back to the present and lis­tened to what Moody was say­ing.

"Ava­da Ke­davra's a curse that needs a pow­er­ful bit of mag­ic be­hind it - you could all get your wands out now and point them at me and say the words, and I doubt I'd get so much as a nose­bleed. But that doesn't mat­ter. I'm not here to teach you how to do it.

“Now, if there's no coun­ter­curse, why am I show­ing you? Be­cause you've got to know. You've got to ap­pre­ci­ate what the worst is. You don't want to find your­self in a sit­ua­tion where you're fac­ing it. CON­STANT VIG­ILANCE!” he roared, and the whole class jumped again.

“Now…those three curs­es - Ava­da Ke­davra, Im­perius, and Cru­cia­tus - are known as the Un­for­giv­able Curs­es. The use of any one of them on a fel­low hu­man be­ing is enough to earn a life sen­tence in Azk­aban. That's what you're up against. That's what I've got to teach you to fight. You need prepar­ing. You need arm­ing. But most of all, you need to prac­tice con­stant, nev­er-​ceas­ing vig­ilance. Get out your quills…copy this down.…”

They spent the rest of the les­son tak­ing notes on each of the Un­for­giv­able Curs­es. No one spoke un­til the bell rang - but when Moody had dis­missed them and they had left the class­room, a tor­rent of talk burst forth. Most peo­ple were dis­cussing the curs­es in awed voic­es - “Did you see it twitch?” “- and when he killed it - just like that!”

They were talk­ing about the les­son, Har­ry thought, as though it had been some sort of spec­tac­ular show, but he hadn't found it very en­ter­tain­ing - and nor, it seemed, had Hermione.

“Hur­ry up,” she said tense­ly to Har­ry and Ron.

“Not the rud­dy li­brary again?” said Ron.

“No,” said Hermione curt­ly, point­ing up a side pas­sage. “Neville.”

Neville was stand­ing alone, halfway up the pas­sage, star­ing at the stone wall op­po­site him with the same hor­ri­fied, wide-​eyed look he had worn when Moody had demon­strat­ed the Cru­cia­tus Curse.

“Neville?” Hermione said gen­tly.

Neville looked around.

“Oh hel­lo,” he said, his voice much high­er than usu­al. “In­ter­est­ing les­son, wasn't it? I won­der what's for din­ner, I'm - I'm starv­ing, aren't you?”

“Neville, are you all right?” said Hermione.

“Oh yes, I'm fine,” Neville gab­bled in the same un­nat­ural­ly high voice. “Very in­ter­est­ing din­ner - I mean les­son - what's for eat­ing?”

Ron gave Har­ry a star­tled look.

“Neville, what -?”

But an odd clunk­ing noise sound­ed be­hind them, and they turned to see Pro­fes­sor Moody limp­ing to­ward them. All four of them fell silent, watch­ing him ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, but when he spoke, it was in a much low­er and gen­tler growl than they had yet heard.

“It's all right, son­ny,” he said to Neville. “Why don't you come up to my of­fice? Come on…we can have a cup of tea.…”

Neville looked even more fright­ened at the prospect of tea with Moody. He nei­ther moved nor spoke. Moody turned his mag­ical eye up­on Har­ry.

“You all right, are you, Pot­ter?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry, al­most de­fi­ant­ly.

Moody's blue eye quiv­ered slight­ly in its sock­et as it sur­veyed Har­ry. Then he said, “You've got to know. It seems harsh, maybe, but you've got to know. No point pre­tend­ing…well…come on, Long­bot­tom, I've got some books that might in­ter­est you.”

Neville looked plead­ing­ly at Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, but they didn't say any­thing, so Neville had no choice but to al­low him­self to be steered away, one of Moody's gnarled hands on his shoul­der.

“What was that about?” said Ron, watch­ing Neville and Moody turn the cor­ner.

“I don't know,” said Hermione, look­ing pen­sive.

“Some les­son, though, eh?” said Ron to Har­ry as they set off for the Great Hall. “Fred and George were right, weren't they? He re­al­ly knows his stuff, Moody, doesn't he? When he did Ava­da Ke­davra, the way that spi­der just died, just snuffed it right -”

But Ron fell sud­den­ly silent at the look on Har­ry's face and didn't speak again un­til they reached the Great Hall, when he said he sup­posed they had bet­ter make a start on Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's pre­dic­tions tonight, since they would take hours.

Hermione did not join in with Har­ry and Ron's con­ver­sa­tion dur­ing din­ner, but ate fu­ri­ous­ly fast, and then left for the li­brary again. Har­ry and Ron walked back to Gryffind­or Tow­er, and Har­ry, who had been think­ing of noth­ing else all through din­ner, now raised the sub­ject of the Un­for­giv­able Curs­es him­self.

“Wouldn't Moody and Dum­ble­dore be in trou­ble with the Min­istry if they knew we'd seen the curs­es?” Har­ry asked as they ap­proached the Fat La­dy.

“Yeah, prob­ably,” said Ron. “But Dum­ble­dore's al­ways done things his way, hasn't he, and Moody's been get­ting in trou­ble for years, I reck­on. At­tacks first and asks ques­tions lat­er - look at his dust­bins. Balder­dash.”

The Fat La­dy swung for­ward to re­veal the en­trance hole, and they climbed in­to the Gryffind­or com­mon room, which was crowd­ed and noisy.

“Shall we get our Div­ina­tion stuff, then?” said Har­ry.

“I s'pose,” Ron groaned.

They went up to the dor­mi­to­ry to fetch their books and charts, to find Neville there alone, sit­ting on his bed, read­ing. He looked a good deal calmer than at the end of Moody's les­son, though still not en­tire­ly nor­mal. His eyes were rather red.

“You all right, Neville?” Har­ry asked him.

“Oh yes,” said Neville, “I'm fine, thanks. Just read­ing this book Pro­fes­sor Moody lent me…”

He held up the book: Mag­ical Wa­ter Plants of the Mediter­ranean.

“Ap­par­ent­ly, Pro­fes­sor Sprout told Pro­fes­sor Moody I'm re­al­ly good at Her­bol­ogy,” Neville said. There was a faint note of pride in his voice that Har­ry had rarely heard there be­fore. “He thought I'd like this.”

Telling Neville what Pro­fes­sor Sprout had said, Har­ry thought, had been a very tact­ful way of cheer­ing Neville up, for Neville very rarely heard that he was good at any­thing. It was the sort of thing Pro­fes­sor Lupin would have done.

Har­ry and Ron took their copies of Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture back down to the com­mon room, found a ta­ble, and set to work on their pre­dic­tions for the com­ing month. An hour lat­er, they had made very lit­tle progress, though their ta­ble was lit­tered with bits of parch­ment bear­ing sums and sym­bols, and Har­ry's brain was as fogged as though it had been filled with the fumes from Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's fire.

“I haven't got a clue what this lot's sup­posed to mean,” he said, star­ing down at a long list of cal­cu­la­tions.

“You know,” said Ron, whose hair was on end be­cause of all the times he had run his fin­gers through it in frus­tra­tion, “I think it's back to the old Div­ina­tion stand­by.”

“What - make it up?”

“Yeah,” said Ron, sweep­ing the jum­ble of scrawled notes off the ta­ble, dip­ping his pen in­to some ink, and start­ing to write.

“Next Mon­day,” he said as he scrib­bled, “I am like­ly to de­vel­op a cough, ow­ing to the un­lucky con­junc­tion of Mars and Jupiter.” He looked up at Har­ry. “You know her - just put in loads of mis­ery, she'll lap it up.”

“Right,” said Har­ry, crum­pling up his first at­tempt and lob­bing it over the heads of a group of chat­ter­ing first years in­to the fire. “Okay…on Mon­day, I will be in dan­ger of - er - burns.”

“Yeah, you will be,” said Ron dark­ly, “we're see­ing the skrewts again on Mon­day. Okay, Tues­day, I'll…erm…”

“Lose a trea­sured pos­ses­sion,” said Har­ry, who was flick­ing through Un­fog­ging the Fu­ture for ideas.

“Good one,” said Ron, copy­ing it down. “Be­cause of…erm…Mer­cury. Why don't you get stabbed in the back by some­one you thought was a friend?”

“Yeah…cool…” said Har­ry, scrib­bling it down, “be­cause…Venus is in the twelfth house.”

“And on Wednes­day, I think I'll come off worst in a fight.”

“Aaah, I was go­ing to have a fight. Okay, I'll lose a bet.”

“Yeah, you'll be bet­ting I'll win my fight.…”

They con­tin­ued to make up pre­dic­tions (which grew steadi­ly more trag­ic) for an­oth­er hour, while the com­mon room around them slow­ly emp­tied as peo­ple went up to bed. Crook­shanks wan­dered over to them, leapt light­ly in­to an emp­ty chair, and stared in­scrutably at Har­ry, rather as Hermione might look if she knew they weren't do­ing their home­work prop­er­ly.

Star­ing around the room, try­ing to think of a kind of mis­for­tune he hadn't yet used, Har­ry saw Fred and George sit­ting to­geth­er against the op­po­site wall, heads to­geth­er, quills out, por­ing over a sin­gle piece of parch­ment. It was most un­usu­al to see Fred and George hid­den away in a cor­ner and work­ing silent­ly; they usu­al­ly liked to be in the thick of things and the noisy cen­ter of at­ten­tion. There was some­thing se­cre­tive about the way they were work­ing on the piece of parch­ment, and Har­ry was re­mind­ed of how they had sat to­geth­er writ­ing some­thing back at the Bur­row. He had thought then that it was an­oth­er or­der form for Weasleys' Wiz­ard Wheezes, but it didn't look like that this time; if it had been, they would sure­ly have let Lee Jor­dan in on the joke. He won­dered whether it had any­thing to do with en­ter­ing the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment.

As Har­ry watched, George shook his head at Fred, scratched out some­thing with his quill, and said, in a very qui­et voice that nev­er­the­less car­ried across the al­most de­sert­ed room, “No - that sounds like we're ac­cus­ing him. Got to be care­ful…”

Then George looked over and saw Har­ry watch­ing him. Har­ry grinned and quick­ly re­turned to his pre­dic­tions - he didn't want George to think he was eaves­drop­ping. Short­ly af­ter that, the twins rolled up their parch­ment, said good night, and went off to bed.

Fred and George had been gone ten min­utes or so when the por­trait hole opened and Hermione climbed in­to the com­mon room car­ry­ing a sheaf of parch­ment in one hand and a box whose con­tents rat­tled as she walked in the oth­er. Crook­shanks arched his back, purring.

“Hel­lo,” she said, “I've just fin­ished!”

“So have I!” said Ron tri­umphant­ly, throw­ing down his quill.

Hermione sat down, laid the things she was car­ry­ing in an emp­ty arm­chair, and pulled Ron's pre­dic­tions to­ward her.

“Not go­ing to have a very good month, are you?” she said sar­don­ical­ly as Crook­shanks curled up in her lap.

“Ah well, at least I'm fore­warned,” Ron yawned.

“You seem to be drown­ing twice,” said Hermione.

“Oh am I?” said Ron, peer­ing down at his pre­dic­tions. “I'd bet­ter change one of them to get­ting tram­pled by a ram­pag­ing hip­pogriff.”

“Don't you think it's a bit ob­vi­ous you've made these up?” said Hermione.

“How dare you!” said Ron, in mock out­rage. “We've been work­ing like house-​elves here!”

Hermione raised her eye­brows.

“It's just an ex­pres­sion,” said Ron hasti­ly.

Har­ry laid down his quill too, hav­ing just fin­ished pre­dict­ing his own death by de­cap­ita­tion.

“What's in the box?” he asked, point­ing at it.

“Fun­ny you should ask,” said Hermione, with a nasty look at Ron. She took off the lid and showed them the con­tents.

In­side were about fifty badges, all of dif­fer­ent col­ors, but all bear­ing the same let­ters: S. P. E .W.

“Spew?” said Har­ry, pick­ing up a badge and look­ing at it. “What's this about?”

“Not spew,” said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly. “It's S-​P-​E-​W. Stands for the So­ci­ety for the Pro­mo­tion of Elfish Wel­fare.”

“Nev­er heard of it,” said Ron.

“Well, of course you haven't,” said Hermione briskly, “I've on­ly just start­ed it.”

“Yeah?” said Ron in mild sur­prise. “How many mem­bers have you got?”

“Well - if you two join - three,” said Hermione.

“And you think we want to walk around wear­ing badges say­ing 'spew,' do you?” said Ron.

“S-​P-​E-​W!” said Hermione hot­ly. “I was go­ing to put Stop the Out­ra­geous Abuse of Our Fel­low Mag­ical Crea­tures and Cam­paign for a Change in Their Le­gal Sta­tus - but it wouldn't fit. So that's the head­ing of our man­ifesto.”

She bran­dished the sheaf of parch­ment at them.

“I've been re­search­ing it thor­ough­ly in the li­brary. Elf en­slave­ment goes back cen­turies. I can't be­lieve no one's done any­thing about it be­fore now.”

“Hermione - open your ears,” said Ron loud­ly. “They. Like. It. They like be­ing en­slaved!”

“Our short-​term aims,” said Hermione, speak­ing even more loud­ly than Ron, and act­ing as though she hadn't heard a word, “are to se­cure house-​elves fair wages and work­ing con­di­tions. Our long-​term aims in­clude chang­ing the law about non-​wand use, and try­ing to get an elf in­to the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures, be­cause they're shock­ing­ly un­der­rep­re­sent­ed.”

“And how do we do all this?” Har­ry asked.

“We start by re­cruit­ing mem­bers,” said Hermione hap­pi­ly. “I thought two Sick­les to join - that buys a badge - and the pro­ceeds can fund our leaflet cam­paign. You're trea­sur­er, Ron - I've got you a col­lect­ing tin up­stairs - and Har­ry, you're sec­re­tary, so you might want to write down ev­ery­thing I'm say­ing now, as a record of our first meet­ing.”

There was a pause in which Hermione beamed at the pair of them, and Har­ry sat, torn be­tween ex­as­per­ation at Hermione and amuse­ment at the look on Ron's face. The si­lence was bro­ken, not by Ron, who in any case looked as though he was tem­porar­ily dumb­struck, but by a soft tap, tap on the win­dow. Har­ry looked across the now emp­ty com­mon room and saw, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the moon­light, a snowy owl perched on the win­dowsill.

“Hed­wig!” he shout­ed, and he launched him­self out of his chair and across the room to pull open the win­dow.

Hed­wig flew in­side, soared across the room, and land­ed on the ta­ble on top of Har­ry's pre­dic­tions.

“About time!” said Har­ry, hur­ry­ing af­ter her.

“She's got an an­swer!” said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, point­ing at the grub­by piece of parch­ment tied to Hed­wig's leg.

Har­ry hasti­ly un­tied it and sat down to read, where­upon Hed­wig flut­tered on­to his knee, hoot­ing soft­ly.

“What does it say?” Hermione asked breath­less­ly.

The let­ter was very short, and looked as though it had been scrawled in a great hur­ry. Har­ry read it aloud:



Har­ry -

I'm fly­ing north im­me­di­ate­ly. This news about your scar is the lat­est in a se­ries of strange ru­mors that have reached me here. If it hurts again, go straight to Dum­ble­dore - they're say­ing he's got Mad-​Eye out of re­tire­ment, which means he's read­ing the signs, even if no one else is.

I'll be in touch soon. My best to Ron and Hermione. Keep your eyes open, Har­ry.

Sir­ius



Har­ry looked up at Ron and Hermione, who stared back at him.

“He's fly­ing north?” Hermione whis­pered. “He's com­ing back?”

“Dum­ble­dore's read­ing what signs?” said Ron, look­ing per­plexed. “Har­ry - what's up?”

For Har­ry had just hit him­self in the fore­head with his fist, jolt­ing Hed­wig out of his lap.

“I shouldn't've told him!” Har­ry said fu­ri­ous­ly.

“What are you on about?” said Ron in sur­prise.

“It's made him think he's got to come back!” said Har­ry, now slam­ming his fist on the ta­ble so that Hed­wig land­ed on the back of Ron's chair, hoot­ing in­dig­nant­ly. “Com­ing back, be­cause he thinks I'm in trou­ble! And there's noth­ing wrong with me! And I haven't got any­thing for you,” Har­ry snapped at Hed­wig, who was click­ing her beak ex­pec­tant­ly, “you'll have to go up to the Owlery if you want food.”

Hed­wig gave him an ex­treme­ly of­fend­ed look and took off for the open win­dow, cuff­ing him around the head with her out­stretched wing as she went.

“Har­ry,” Hermione be­gan, in a paci­fy­ing sort of voice.

“I'm go­ing to bed,” said Har­ry short­ly. “See you in the morn­ing.”

Up­stairs in the dor­mi­to­ry he pulled on his pa­ja­mas and got in­to his four-​poster, but he didn't feel re­mote­ly tired.

If Sir­ius came back and got caught, it would be his, Har­ry's, fault. Why hadn't he kept his mouth shut? A few sec­onds' pain and he'd had to blab.…If he'd just had the sense to keep it to him­self.…

He heard Ron come up in­to the dor­mi­to­ry a short while lat­er, but did not speak to him. For a long time, Har­ry lay star­ing up at the dark canopy of his bed. The dor­mi­to­ry was com­plete­ly silent, and, had he been less pre­oc­cu­pied, Har­ry would have re­al­ized that the ab­sence of Neville's usu­al snores meant that he was not the on­ly one ly­ing awake.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER FIFTEEN


BEAUX­BA­TONS AND DURM­STRANG



E ar­ly next morn­ing, Har­ry woke with a plan ful­ly formed in his mind, as though his sleep­ing brain had been work­ing on it all night. He got up, dressed in the pale dawn light, left the dor­mi­to­ry with­out wak­ing Ron, and went back down to the de­sert­ed com­mon room. Here he took a piece of parch­ment from the ta­ble up­on which his Div­ina­tion home­work still lay and wrote the fol­low­ing let­ter:



Dear Sir­ius,

I reck­on I just imag­ined my scar hurt­ing, I was half asleep when I wrote to you last time. There's no point com­ing back, ev­ery­thing's fine here. Don't wor­ry about me, my head feels com­plete­ly nor­mal.

Har­ry



He then climbed out of the por­trait hole, up through the silent cas­tle (held up on­ly briefly by Peeves, who tried to over­turn a large vase on him halfway along the fourth-​floor cor­ri­dor), fi­nal­ly ar­riv­ing at the Owlery, which was sit­uat­ed at the top of West Tow­er.

The Owlery was a cir­cu­lar stone room, rather cold and drafty, be­cause none of the win­dows had glass in them. The floor was en­tire­ly cov­ered in straw, owl drop­pings, and the re­gur­gi­tat­ed skele­tons of mice and voles. Hun­dreds up­on hun­dreds of owls of ev­ery breed imag­in­able were nes­tled here on perch­es that rose right up to the top of the tow­er, near­ly all of them asleep, though here and there a round am­ber eye glared at Har­ry. He spot­ted Hed­wig nes­tled be­tween a barn owl and a tawny, and hur­ried over to her, slid­ing a lit­tle on the drop­ping-​strewn floor.

It took him a while to per­suade her to wake up and then to look at him, as she kept shuf­fling around on her perch, show­ing him her tail. She was ev­ident­ly still fu­ri­ous about his lack of grat­itude the pre­vi­ous night. In the end, it was Har­ry sug­gest­ing she might be too tired, and that per­haps he would ask Ron to bor­row Pig­wid­geon, that made her stick out her leg and al­low him to tie the let­ter to it.

“Just find him, all right?” Har­ry said, stroking her back as he car­ried her on his arm to one of the holes in the wall. “Be­fore the de­men­tors do.”

She nipped his fin­ger, per­haps rather hard­er than she would or­di­nar­ily have done, but hoot­ed soft­ly in a re­as­sur­ing sort of way all the same. Then she spread her wings and took off in­to the sun­rise. Har­ry watched her fly out of sight with the fa­mil­iar feel­ing of un­ease back in his stom­ach. He had been so sure that Sir­ius's re­ply would al­le­vi­ate his wor­ries rather than in­creas­ing them.

“That was a lie, Har­ry,” said Hermione sharply over break­fast, when he told her and Ron what he had done. “You didn't imag­ine your scar hurt­ing and you know it.”

“So what?” said Har­ry. “He's not go­ing back to Azk­aban be­cause of me.”

“Drop it,” said Ron sharply to Hermione as she opened her mouth to ar­gue some more, and for once, Hermione heed­ed him, and fell silent.

Har­ry did his best not to wor­ry about Sir­ius over the next cou­ple of weeks. True, he could not stop him­self from look­ing anx­ious­ly around ev­ery morn­ing when the post owls ar­rived, nor, late at night be­fore he went to sleep, pre­vent him­self from see­ing hor­ri­ble vi­sions of Sir­ius, cor­nered by de­men­tors down some dark Lon­don street, but be­tween­times he tried to keep his mind off his god­fa­ther. He wished he still had Quid­ditch to dis­tract him; noth­ing worked so well on a trou­bled mind as a good, hard train­ing ses­sion. On the oth­er hand, their lessons were be­com­ing more dif­fi­cult and de­mand­ing than ev­er be­fore, par­tic­ular­ly Moody's De­fense Against the Dark Arts.

To their sur­prise, Pro­fes­sor Moody had an­nounced that he would be putting the Im­perius Curse on each of them in turn, to demon­strate its pow­er and to see whether they could re­sist its ef­fects.

“But - but you said it's il­le­gal, Pro­fes­sor,” said Hermione un­cer­tain­ly as Moody cleared away the desks with a sweep of his wand, leav­ing a large clear space in the mid­dle of the room. “You said - to use it against an­oth­er hu­man was -”

“Dum­ble­dore wants you taught what it feels like,” said Moody, his mag­ical eye swivel­ing on­to Hermione and fix­ing her with an eerie, un­blink­ing stare. “If you'd rather learn the hard way - when some­one's putting it on you so they can con­trol you com­plete­ly - fine by me. You're ex­cused. Off you go.”

He point­ed one gnarled fin­ger to­ward the door. Hermione went very pink and mut­tered some­thing about not mean­ing that she want­ed to leave. Har­ry and Ron grinned at each oth­er. They knew Hermione would rather eat bubo­tu­ber pus than miss such an im­por­tant les­son.

Moody be­gan to beck­on stu­dents for­ward in turn and put the Im­perius Curse up­on them. Har­ry watched as, one by one, his class­mates did the most ex­traor­di­nary things un­der its in­flu­ence. Dean Thomas hopped three times around the room, singing the na­tion­al an­them. Laven­der Brown im­itat­ed a squir­rel. Neville per­formed a se­ries of quite as­ton­ish­ing gym­nas­tics he would cer­tain­ly not have been ca­pa­ble of in his nor­mal state. Not one of them seemed to be able to fight off the curse, and each of them re­cov­ered on­ly when Moody had re­moved it.

“Pot­ter,” Moody growled, “you next.”

Har­ry moved for­ward in­to the mid­dle of the class­room, in­to the space that Moody had cleared of desks. Moody raised his wand, point­ed it at Har­ry, and said, “Im­pe­rio!”

It was the most won­der­ful feel­ing. Har­ry felt a float­ing sen­sa­tion as ev­ery thought and wor­ry in his head was wiped gen­tly away, leav­ing noth­ing but a vague, un­trace­able hap­pi­ness. He stood there feel­ing im­mense­ly re­laxed, on­ly dim­ly aware of ev­ery­one watch­ing him.

And then he heard Mad-​Eye Moody's voice, echo­ing in some dis­tant cham­ber of his emp­ty brain: Jump on­to the desk…jump on­to the desk…

Har­ry bent his knees obe­di­ent­ly, prepar­ing to spring.

Jump on­to the desk .…

Why, though? An­oth­er voice had awo­ken in the back of his brain.

Stupid thing to do, re­al­ly, said the voice.

Jump on­to the desk.…

No, I don't think I will, thanks, said the oth­er voice, a lit­tle more firm­ly…no, I don't re­al­ly want to.…

Jump! NOW!

The next thing Har­ry felt was con­sid­er­able pain. He had both jumped and tried to pre­vent him­self from jump­ing - the re­sult was that he'd smashed head­long in­to the desk knock­ing it over, and, by the feel­ing in his legs, frac­tured both his kneecaps.

“Now, that's more like it!” growled Moody's voice, and sud­den­ly, Har­ry felt the emp­ty, echo­ing feel­ing in his head dis­ap­pear. He re­mem­bered ex­act­ly what was hap­pen­ing, and the pain in his knees seemed to dou­ble.

“Look at that, you lot…Pot­ter fought! He fought it, and he damn near beat it! We'll try that again, Pot­ter, and the rest of you, pay at­ten­tion - watch his eyes, that's where you see it - very good, Pot­ter, very good in­deed! They'll have trou­ble con­trol­ling you!”



“The way he talks,” Har­ry mut­tered as he hob­bled out of the De­fense Against the Dark Arts class an hour lat­er (Moody had in­sist­ed on putting Har­ry through his paces four times in a row, un­til Har­ry could throw off the curse en­tire­ly), “you'd think we were all go­ing to be at­tacked any sec­ond.”

“Yeah, I know,” said Ron, who was skip­ping on ev­ery al­ter­nate step. He had had much more dif­fi­cul­ty with the curse than Har­ry, though Moody as­sured him the ef­fects would wear off by lunchtime. “Talk about para­noid…” Ron glanced ner­vous­ly over his shoul­der to check that Moody was def­inite­ly out of earshot and went on. “No won­der they were glad to get shot of him at the Min­istry. Did you hear him telling Sea­mus what he did to that witch who shout­ed 'Boo' be­hind him on April Fools' Day? And when are we sup­posed to read up on re­sist­ing the Im­perius Curse with ev­ery­thing else we've got to do?”

All the fourth years had no­ticed a def­inite in­crease in the amount of work they were re­quired to do this term. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ex­plained why, when the class gave a par­tic­ular­ly loud groan at the amount of Trans­fig­ura­tion home­work she had as­signed.

“You are now en­ter­ing a most im­por­tant phase of your mag­ical ed­uca­tion!” she told them, her eyes glint­ing dan­ger­ous­ly be­hind her square spec­ta­cles. “Your Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­els are draw­ing clos­er -”

“We don't take O.W.L.s till fifth year!” said Dean Thomas in­dig­nant­ly.

“Maybe not, Thomas, but be­lieve me, you need all the prepa­ra­tion you can get! Miss Granger re­mains the on­ly per­son in this class who has man­aged to turn a hedge­hog in­to a sat­is­fac­to­ry pin­cush­ion. I might re­mind you that your pin­cush­ion, Thomas, still curls up in fright if any­one ap­proach­es it with a pin!”

Hermione, who had turned rather pink again, seemed to be try­ing not to look too pleased with her­self.

Har­ry and Ron were deeply amused when Pro­fes­sor Trelawney told them that they had re­ceived top marks for their home­work in their next Div­ina­tion class. She read out large por­tions of their pre­dic­tions, com­mend­ing them for their un­flinch­ing ac­cep­tance of the hor­rors in store for them - but they were less amused when she asked them to do the same thing for the month af­ter next; both of them were run­ning out of ideas for catas­tro­phes.

Mean­while Pro­fes­sor Binns, the ghost who taught His­to­ry of Mag­ic, had them writ­ing week­ly es­says on the gob­lin re­bel­lions of the eigh­teenth cen­tu­ry. Pro­fes­sor Snape was forc­ing them to re­search an­ti­dotes. They took this one se­ri­ous­ly, as he had hint­ed that he might be poi­son­ing one of them be­fore Christ­mas to see if their an­ti­dote worked. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick had asked them to read three ex­tra books in prepa­ra­tion for their les­son on Sum­mon­ing Charms.

Even Ha­grid was adding to their work­load. The Blast-​End­ed Skrewts were grow­ing at a re­mark­able pace giv­en that no­body had yet dis­cov­ered what they ate. Ha­grid was de­light­ed, and as part of their “project,” sug­gest­ed that they come down to his hut on al­ter­nate evenings to ob­serve the skrewts and make notes on their ex­traor­di­nary be­hav­ior.

“I will not,” said Dra­co Mal­foy flat­ly when Ha­grid had pro­posed this with the air of Fa­ther Christ­mas pulling an ex­tra-​large toy out of his sack. “I see enough of these foul things dur­ing lessons, thanks.”

Ha­grid's smile fad­ed off his face.

“Yeh'll do wha' yer told,” he growled, “or I'll be takin' a leaf out­ta Pro­fes­sor Moody's book.…I hear yeh made a good fer­ret, Mal­foy.”

The Gryffind­ors roared with laugh­ter. Mal­foy flushed with anger, but ap­par­ent­ly the mem­ory of Moody's pun­ish­ment was still suf­fi­cient­ly painful to stop him from re­tort­ing. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione re­turned to the cas­tle at the end of the les­son in high spir­its; see­ing Ha­grid put down Mal­foy was par­tic­ular­ly sat­is­fy­ing, es­pe­cial­ly be­cause Mal­foy had done his very best to get Ha­grid sacked the pre­vi­ous year.

When they ar­rived in the en­trance hall, they found them­selves un­able to pro­ceed ow­ing to the large crowd of stu­dents con­gre­gat­ed there, all milling around a large sign that had been erect­ed at the foot of the mar­ble stair­case. Ron, the tallest of the three, stood on tip­toe to see over the heads in front of them and read the sign aloud to the oth­er two:



TRI­WIZ­ARD TOUR­NA­MENT

THE DEL­EGA­TIONS FROM BEAUX­BA­TONS AND DURM­STRANG WILL BE AR­RIV­ING AT 6 O'CLOCK ON FRI­DAY THE 30TH OF OC­TO­BER. LESSONS WILL END HALF AN HOUR EAR­LY-



“Bril­liant!” said Har­ry. “It's Po­tions last thing on Fri­day! Snape won't have time to poi­son us all!”



STU­DENTS WILL RE­TURN THEIR BAGS AND BOOKS TO THEIR DOR­MI­TO­RIES AND AS­SEM­BLE IN FRONT OF THE CAS­TLE TO GREET OUR GUESTS BE­FORE­THE WEL­COM­ING FEAST.



“On­ly a week away!” said Ernie Macmil­lan of Huf­flepuff, emerg­ing from the crowd, his eyes gleam­ing. “I won­der if Cedric knows? Think I'll go and tell him.…”

“Cedric?” said Ron blankly as Ernie hur­ried off.

“Dig­gory,” said Har­ry. “He must be en­ter­ing the tour­na­ment.”

“That id­iot, Hog­warts cham­pi­on?” said Ron as they pushed their way through the chat­ter­ing crowd to­ward the stair­case.

“He's not an id­iot. You just don't like him be­cause he beat Gryffind­or at Quid­ditch,” said Hermione. “I've heard he's a re­al­ly good stu­dent - and he's a pre­fect.”

She spoke as though this set­tled the mat­ter.

“You on­ly like him be­cause he's hand­some,” said Ron scathing­ly.

“Ex­cuse me, I don't like peo­ple just be­cause they're hand­some!” said Hermione in­dig­nant­ly.

Ron gave a loud false cough, which sound­ed odd­ly like “Lock­hart!”

The ap­pear­ance of the sign in the en­trance hall had a marked ef­fect up­on the in­hab­itants of the cas­tle. Dur­ing the fol­low­ing week, there seemed to be on­ly one top­ic of con­ver­sa­tion, no mat­ter where Har­ry went: the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. Ru­mors were fly­ing from stu­dent to stu­dent like high­ly con­ta­gious germs: who was go­ing to try for Hog­warts cham­pi­on, what the tour­na­ment would in­volve, how the stu­dents from Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang dif­fered from them­selves.

Har­ry no­ticed too that the cas­tle seemed to be un­der­go­ing an ex­tra-​thor­ough clean­ing. Sev­er­al grimy por­traits had been scrubbed, much to the dis­plea­sure of their sub­jects, who sat hud­dled in their frames mut­ter­ing dark­ly and winc­ing as they felt their raw pink faces. The suits of ar­mor were sud­den­ly gleam­ing and mov­ing with­out squeak­ing, and Ar­gus Filch, the care­tak­er, was be­hav­ing so fe­ro­cious­ly to any stu­dents who for­got to wipe their shoes that he ter­ri­fied a pair of first-​year girls in­to hys­ter­ics.

Oth­er mem­bers of the staff seemed odd­ly tense too.

“Long­bot­tom, kind­ly do not re­veal that you can't even per­form a sim­ple Switch­ing Spell in front of any­one from Durm­strang!” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall barked at the end of one par­tic­ular­ly dif­fi­cult les­son, dur­ing which Neville had ac­ci­den­tal­ly trans­plant­ed his own ears on­to a cac­tus.

When they went down to break­fast on the morn­ing of the thir­ti­eth of Oc­to­ber, they found that the Great Hall had been dec­orat­ed overnight. Enor­mous silk ban­ners hung from the walls, each of them rep­re­sent­ing a Hog­warts House: red with a gold li­on for Gryf­fi­in­dor, blue with a bronze ea­gle for Raven­claw, yel­low with a black bad­ger for Huf­flepuff, and green with a sil­ver ser­pent for Slytherin. Be­hind the teach­ers' ta­ble, the largest ban­ner of all bore the Hog­warts coat of arms: li­on, ea­gle, bad­ger, and snake unit­ed around a large let­ter H.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sat down be­side Fred and George at the Gryffind­or ta­ble. Once again, and most un­usu­al­ly, they were sit­ting apart from ev­ery­one else and con­vers­ing in low voic­es. Ron led the way over to them.

“It's a bum­mer, all right,” George was say­ing gloomi­ly to Fred. “But if he won't talk to us in per­son, we'll have to send him the let­ter af­ter all. Or we'll stuff it in­to his hand. He can't avoid us for­rev­er.”

“Who's avoid­ing you?” said Ron, sit­ting down next to them.

“Wish you would,” said Fred, look­ing ir­ri­tat­ed at the in­ter­rup­tion.

“What's a bum­mer?” Ron asked George.

“Hav­ing a nosy git like you for a broth­er,” said George.

“You two got any ideas on the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment yet?” Har­ry asked. “Thought any more about try­ing to en­ter?”

“I asked McG­ona­gall how the cham­pi­ons are cho­sen but she wasn't telling,” said George bit­ter­ly. “She just told me to shut up and get on with trans­fig­ur­ing my rac­coon.”

“Won­der what the tasks are go­ing to be?” said Ron thought­ful­ly. “You know, I bet we could do them, Har­ry. We've done dan­ger­ous stuff be­fore.…”

“Not in front of a pan­el of judges, you haven't,” said Fred. “McG­ona­gall says the cham­pi­ons get award­ed points ac­cord­ing to how well they've done the tasks.”

“Who are the judges?” Har­ry asked.

“Well, the Heads of the par­tic­ipat­ing schools are al­ways on the pan­el,” said Hermione, and ev­ery­one looked around at her, rather sur­prised, “be­cause all three of them were in­jured dur­ing the Tour­na­ment of 1792, when a cock­atrice the cham­pi­ons were sup­posed to be catch­ing went on the ram­page.”

She no­ticed them all look­ing at her and said, with her usu­al air of im­pa­tience that no­body else had read all the books she had, “It's all in Hog­warts, A His­to­ry. Though, of course, that book's not en­tire­ly re­li­able. A Re­vised His­to­ry of Hog­warts would be a more ac­cu­rate ti­tle. Or A High­ly Bi­ased and Se­lec­tive His­to­ry of Hog­warts, Which Gloss­es Over the Nas­ti­er As­pects of the School.”

“What are you on about?” said Ron, though Har­ry thought he knew what was com­ing.

“House-​elves!” said Hermione, her eyes flash­ing. “Not once, in over a thou­sand pages, does Hog­warts, A His­to­ry men­tion that we are all col­lud­ing in the op­pres­sion of a hun­dred slaves!”

Har­ry shook his head and ap­plied him­self to his scram­bled eggs. His and Ron's lack of en­thu­si­asm had done noth­ing what­so­ev­er to curb Hermione's de­ter­mi­na­tion to pur­sue jus­tice for house-​elves. True, both of them had paid two Sick­les for a S.P.E.W. badge, but they had on­ly done it to keep her qui­et. Their Sick­les had been wast­ed, how­ev­er; if any­thing, they seemed to have made Hermione more vo­cif­er­ous. She had been bad­ger­ing Har­ry and Ron ev­er since, first to wear the badges, then to per­suade oth­ers to do the same, and she had al­so tak­en to rat­tling around the Gryffind­or com­mon room ev­ery evening, cor­ner­ing peo­ple and shak­ing the col­lect­ing tin un­der their noses.

“You do re­al­ize that your sheets are changed, your fires lit, your class­rooms cleaned, and your food cooked by a group of mag­ical crea­tures who are un­paid and en­slaved?” she kept say­ing fierce­ly.

Some peo­ple, like Neville, had paid up just to stop Hermione from glow­er­ing at them. A few seemed mild­ly in­ter­est­ed in what she had to say, but were re­luc­tant to take a more ac­tive role in cam­paign­ing. Many re­gard­ed the whole thing as a joke.

Ron now rolled his eyes at the ceil­ing, which was flood­ing them all in au­tumn sun­light, and Fred be­came ex­treme­ly in­ter­est­ed in his ba­con (both twins had re­fused to buy a S.P.E.W. badge). George, how­ev­er, leaned in to­ward Hermione.

“Lis­ten, have you ev­er been down in the kitchens, Hermione?”

“No, of course not,” said Hermione curt­ly, “I hard­ly think stu­dents are sup­posed to -”

“Well, we have,” said George, in­di­cat­ing Fred, “loads of times, to nick food. And we've met them, and they're hap­py. They think they've got the best job in the world -”

“That's be­cause they're un­ed­ucat­ed and brain­washed!” Hermione be­gan hot­ly, but her next few words were drowned out by the sud­den whoosh­ing noise from over­head, which an­nounced the ar­rival of the post owls. Har­ry looked up at once, and saw Hed­wig soar­ing to­ward him. Hermione stopped talk­ing abrupt­ly; she and Ron watched Hed­wig anx­ious­ly as she flut­tered down on­to Har­ry's shoul­der, fold­ed her wings, and held out her leg weari­ly.

Har­ry pulled off Sir­ius's re­ply and of­fered Hed­wig his ba­con rinds, which she ate grate­ful­ly. Then, check­ing that Fred and George were safe­ly im­mersed in fur­ther dis­cus­sions about the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment, Har­ry read out Sir­ius's let­ter in a whis­per to Ron and Hermione.



Nice try, Har­ry.

I'm back in the coun­try and well hid­den. I want you to keep me post­ed on ev­ery­thing that's go­ing on at Hog­warts. Don't use Hed­wig, keep chang­ing owls, and don't wor­ry about me, just watch out for your­self Don't for­get what I said about your scar.

Sir­ius



“Why d'you have to keep chang­ing owls?” Ron asked in a low voice.

“Hed­wig'll at­tract too much at­ten­tion,” said Hermione at once. “She stands out. A snowy owl that keeps re­turn­ing to wher­ev­er he's hid­ing…I mean, they're not na­tive birds, are they?”

Har­ry rolled up the let­ter and slipped it in­side his robes, won­der­ing whether he felt more or less wor­ried than be­fore. He sup­posed that Sir­ius man­ag­ing to get back with­out be­ing caught was some­thing. He couldn't de­ny ei­ther that the idea that Sir­ius was much near­er was re­as­sur­ing; at least he wouldn't have to wait so long for a re­sponse ev­ery time he wrote.

“Thanks, Hed­wig,” he said, stroking her. She hoot­ed sleep­ily, dipped her beak briefly in­to his gob­let of or­ange juice, then took off again, clear­ly des­per­ate for a good long sleep in the Owlery.

There was a pleas­ant feel­ing of an­tic­ipa­tion in the air that day. No­body was very at­ten­tive in lessons, be­ing much more in­ter­est­ed in the ar­rival that evening of the peo­ple from Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang; even Po­tions was more bear­able than usu­al, as it was half an hour short­er. When the bell rang ear­ly, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione hur­ried up to Gryffind­or Tow­er, de­posit­ed their bags and books as they had been in­struct­ed, pulled on their cloaks, and rushed back down­stairs in­to the en­trance hall.

The Heads of Hous­es were or­der­ing their stu­dents in­to lines.

“Weasley, straight­en your hat,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall snapped at Ron. “Miss Patil, take that ridicu­lous thing out of your hair.”

Par­vati scowled and re­moved a large or­na­men­tal but­ter­fly from the end of her plait.

“Fol­low me, please,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “First years in front…no push­ing.…”

They filed down the steps and lined up in front of the cas­tle. It was a cold, clear evening; dusk was falling and a pale, trans­par­ent-​look­ing moon was al­ready shin­ing over the For­bid­den For­est. Har­ry, stand­ing be­tween Ron and Hermione in the fourth row from the front, saw Den­nis Creevey pos­itive­ly shiv­er­ing with an­tic­ipa­tion among the oth­er first years.

“Near­ly six,” said Ron, check­ing his watch and then star­ing down the drive that led to the front gates. “How d'you reck­on they're com­ing? The train?”

“I doubt it,” said Hermione.

“How, then? Broom­sticks?” Har­ry sug­gest­ed, look­ing up at the star­ry sky.

“I don't think so…not from that far away.…”

“A Portkey?” Ron sug­gest­ed. “Or they could Ap­pa­rate - maybe you're al­lowed to do it un­der sev­en­teen wher­ev­er they come from?”

“You can't Ap­pa­rate in­side the Hog­warts grounds, how of­ten do I have to tell you?” said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly.

They scanned the dark­en­ing grounds ex­cit­ed­ly, but noth­ing was mov­ing; ev­ery­thing was still, silent, and quite as usu­al. Har­ry was start­ing to feel cold. He wished they'd hur­ry up.…Maybe the for­eign stu­dents were prepar­ing a dra­mat­ic en­trance.…He re­mem­bered what Mr. Weasley had said back at the camp­site be­fore the Quid­ditch World Cup: “al­ways the same - we can't re­sist show­ing off when we get to­geth­er.…”

And then Dum­ble­dore called out from the back row where he stood with the oth­er teach­ers -

“Aha! Un­less I am very much mis­tak­en, the del­ega­tion from Beaux­ba­tons ap­proach­es!”

“Where?” said many stu­dents ea­ger­ly, all look­ing in dif­fer­ent di­rec­tions.

“There!” yelled a sixth year, point­ing over the for­est.

Some­thing large, much larg­er than a broom­stick - or, in­deed, a hun­dred broom­sticks - was hurtling across the deep blue sky to­ward the cas­tle, grow­ing larg­er all the time.

“It's a drag­on!” shrieked one of the first years, los­ing her head com­plete­ly.

“Don't be stupid…it's a fly­ing house!” said Den­nis Creevey.

Den­nis's guess was clos­er.…As the gi­gan­tic black shape skimmed over the tree­tops of the For­bid­den For­est and the lights shin­ing from the cas­tle win­dows hit it, they saw a gi­gan­tic, pow­derblue, horse-​drawn car­riage, the size of a large house, soar­ing to­ward them, pulled through the air by a dozen winged hors­es, all palomi­nos, and each the size of an ele­phant.

The front three rows of stu­dents drew back­ward as the car­riage hur­tled ev­er low­er, com­ing in to land at a tremen­dous speed - then, with an almighty crash that made Neville jump back­ward on­to a Slytherin fifth year's foot, the hors­es' hooves, larg­er than din­ner plates, hit the ground. A sec­ond lat­er, the car­riage land­ed too, bounc­ing up­on its vast wheels, while the gold­en hors­es tossed their enor­mous heads and rolled large, fiery red eyes.

Har­ry just had time to see that the door of the car­riage bore a coat of arms (two crossed, gold­en wands, each emit­ting three stars) be­fore it opened.

A boy in pale blue robes jumped down from the car­riage, bent for­ward, fum­bled for a mo­ment with some­thing on the car­riage floor, and un­fold­ed a set of gold­en steps. He sprang back re­spect­ful­ly. Then Har­ry saw a shin­ing, high-​heeled black shoe emerg­ing from the in­side of the car­riage - a shoe the size of a child's sled - fol­lowed, al­most im­me­di­ate­ly, by the largest wom­an he had ev­er seen in his life. The size of the car­riage, and of the hors­es, was im­me­di­ate­ly ex­plained. A few peo­ple gasped.

Har­ry had on­ly ev­er seen one per­son as large as this wom­an in his life, and that was Ha­grid; he doubt­ed whether there was an inch dif­fer­ence in their heights. Yet some­how - maybe sim­ply be­cause he was used to Ha­grid - this wom­an (now at the foot of the steps, and look­ing around at the wait­ing, wide-​eyed crowd) seemed even more un­nat­ural­ly large. As she stepped in­to the light flood­ing from the en­trance hall, she was re­vealed to have a hand­some, olive-​skinned face; large, black, liq­uid-​look­ing eyes; and a rather beaky nose. Her hair was drawn back in a shin­ing knob at the base of her neck. She was dressed from head to foot in black satin, and many mag­nif­icent opals gleamed at her throat and on her thick fin­gers.

Dum­ble­dore start­ed to clap; the stu­dents, fol­low­ing his lead, broke in­to ap­plause too, many of them stand­ing on tip­toe, the bet­ter to look at this wom­an.

Her face re­laxed in­to a gra­cious smile and she walked for­ward to­ward Dum­ble­dore, ex­tend­ing a glit­ter­ing hand. Dum­ble­dore, though tall him­self, had bare­ly to bend to kiss it.

“My dear Madame Maxime,” he said. “Wel­come to Hog­warts.”

“Dumb­ly-​dort,” said Madame Maxime in a deep voice. “I 'ope I find you well?”

“In ex­cel­lent form, I thank you,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“My pupils,” said Madame Maxime, wav­ing one of her enor­mous hands care­less­ly be­hind her.

Har­ry, whose at­ten­tion had been fo­cused com­plete­ly up­on Madame Maxime, now no­ticed that about a dozen boys and girls, all, by the look of them, in their late teens, had emerged from the car­riage and were now stand­ing be­hind Madame Maxime. They were shiv­er­ing, which was un­sur­pris­ing, giv­en that their robes seemed to be made of fine silk, and none of them were wear­ing cloaks. A few had wrapped scarves and shawls around their heads. From what Har­ry could see of them (they were stand­ing in Madame Maxime's enor­mous shad­ow), they were star­ing up at Hog­warts with ap­pre­hen­sive looks on their faces.

“As Karkaroff ar­rived yet?” Madame Maxime asked.

“He should be here any mo­ment,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Would you like to wait here and greet him or would you pre­fer to step in­side and warm up a tri­fle?”

“Warm up, I think,” said Madame Maxime. “But ze 'ors­es -”

“Our Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er will be de­light­ed to take care of them,” said Dum­ble­dore, “the mo­ment he has re­turned from deal­ing with a slight sit­ua­tion that has arisen with some of his oth­er - er - charges.”

“Skrewts,” Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, grin­ning.

“My steeds re­quire - er - force­ful 'an­dling,” said Madame Maxime, look­ing as though she doubt­ed whether any Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er at Hog­warts could be up to the job. “Zey are very strong.…”

“I as­sure you that Ha­grid will be well up to the job,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing.

“Very well,” said Madame Maxime, bow­ing slight­ly. “Will you please in­form zis 'Agrid zat ze 'ors­es drink on­ly sin­gle-​malt whiskey?”

“It will be at­tend­ed to,” said Dum­ble­dore, al­so bow­ing.

“Come,” said Madame Maxime im­pe­ri­ous­ly to her stu­dents, and the Hog­warts crowd part­ed to al­low her and her stu­dents to pass up the stone steps.

“How big d'you reck­on Durm­strang's hors­es are go­ing to be?” Sea­mus Finni­gan said, lean­ing around Laven­der and Par­vati to ad­dress Har­ry and Ron.

“Well, if they're any big­ger than this lot, even Ha­grid won't be able to han­dle them,” said Har­ry. “That's if he hasn't been at­tacked by his skrewts. Won­der what's up with them?”

“Maybe they've es­caped,” said Ron hope­ful­ly.

“Oh don't say that,” said Hermione with a shud­der. “Imag­ine that lot loose on the grounds.…”

They stood, shiv­er­ing slight­ly now, wait­ing for the Durm­strang par­ty to ar­rive. Most peo­ple were gaz­ing hope­ful­ly up at the sky. For a few min­utes, the si­lence was bro­ken on­ly by Madame Maxime's huge hors­es snort­ing and stamp­ing. But then -

“Can you hear some­thing?” said Ron sud­den­ly.

Har­ry lis­tened; a loud and odd­ly eerie noise was drift­ing to­ward them from out of the dark­ness: a muf­fled rum­bling and suck­ing sound, as though an im­mense vac­uum clean­er were mov­ing along a riverbed.…

“The lake!” yelled Lee Jor­dan, point­ing down at it. “Look at the lake!”

From their po­si­tion at the top of the lawns over­look­ing the grounds, they had a clear view of the smooth black sur­face of the wa­ter - ex­cept that the sur­face was sud­den­ly not smooth at all. Some dis­tur­bance was tak­ing place deep in the cen­ter; great bub­bles were form­ing on the sur­face, waves were now wash­ing over the mud­dy banks -and then, out in the very mid­dle of the lake, a whirlpool ap­peared, as if a gi­ant plug had just been pulled out of the lake's floor.…

What seemed to be a long, black pole be­gan to rise slow­ly out of the heart of the whirlpool…and then Har­ry saw the rig­ging.…

“It's a mast!” he said to Ron and Hermione.

Slow­ly, mag­nif­icent­ly, the ship rose out of the wa­ter, gleam­ing in the moon­light. It had a strange­ly skele­tal look about it, as though it were a res­ur­rect­ed wreck, and the dim, misty lights shim­mer­ing at its port­holes looked like ghost­ly eyes. Fi­nal­ly, with a great slosh­ing noise, the ship emerged en­tire­ly, bob­bing on the tur­bu­lent wa­ter, and be­gan to glide to­ward the bank. A few mo­ments lat­er, they heard the splash of an an­chor be­ing thrown down in the shal­lows, and the thud of a plank be­ing low­ered on­to the bank.

Peo­ple were dis­em­bark­ing; they could see their sil­hou­ettes pass­ing the lights in the ship's port­holes. All of them, Har­ry no­ticed, seemed to be built along the lines of Crabbe and Goyle…but then, as they drew near­er, walk­ing up the lawns in­to the light stream­ing from the en­trance hall, he saw that their bulk was re­al­ly due to the fact that they were wear­ing cloaks of some kind of shag­gy, mat­ted fur. But the man who was lead­ing them up to the cas­tle was wear­ing furs of a dif­fer­ent sort: sleek and sil­ver, like his hair.

“Dum­ble­dore!” he called hearti­ly as he walked up the slope. “How are you, my dear fel­low, how are you?”

“Bloom­ing, thank you, Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff,” Dum­ble­dore replied. Karkaroff had a fruity, unc­tu­ous voice; when he stepped in­to the light pour­ing from the front doors of the cas­tle they saw that he was tall and thin like Dum­ble­dore, but his white hair was short, and his goa­tee (fin­ish­ing in a small curl) did not en­tire­ly hide his rather weak chin. When he reached Dum­ble­dore, he shook hands with both of his own.

“Dear old Hog­warts,” he said, look­ing up at the cas­tle and smil­ing; his teeth were rather yel­low, and Har­ry no­ticed that his smile did not ex­tend to his eyes, which re­mained cold and shrewd. “How good it is to be here, how good.…Vik­tor, come along, in­to the warmth…you don't mind, Dum­ble­dore? Vik­tor has a slight head cold…”

Karkaroff beck­oned for­ward one of his stu­dents. As the boy passed, Har­ry caught a glimpse of a promi­nent curved nose and thick black eye­brows. He didn't need the punch on the arm Ron gave him, or the hiss in his ear, to rec­og­nize that pro­file.

“Har­ry - it's Krum!”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER SIXTEEN


THE GOB­LET OF FIRE



I don't be­lieve it!“ Ron said, in a stunned voice, as the Hog­warts stu­dents filed back up the steps be­hind the par­ty from Durm­strang. ”Krum, Har­ry! Vik­tor Krum!"

“For heav­en's sake, Ron, he's on­ly a Quid­ditch play­er,” said Hermione.

“On­ly a Quid­ditch play­er?” Ron said, look­ing at her as though he couldn't be­lieve his ears. “Hermione - he's one of the best Seek­ers in the world! I had no idea he was still at school!”

As they re­crossed the en­trance hall with the rest of the Hog­warts stu­dents head­ing for the Great Hall, Har­ry saw Lee Jor­dan jump­ing up and down on the soles of his feet to get a bet­ter look at the back of Krum's head. Sev­er­al sixth-​year girls were fran­ti­cal­ly search­ing their pock­ets as they walked -

“Oh I don't be­lieve it, I haven't got a sin­gle quill on me -”

“D'you think he'd sign my hat in lip­stick?”

“Re­al­ly,” Hermione said lofti­ly as they passed the girls, now squab­bling over the lip­stick.

“I'm get­ting his au­to­graph if I can,” said Ron. “You haven't got a quill, have you, Har­ry?”

“Nope, they're up­stairs in my bag,” said Har­ry.

They walked over to the Gryffind­or ta­ble and sat down. Ron took care to sit on the side fac­ing the door­way, be­cause Krum and his fel­low Durm­strang stu­dents were still gath­ered around it, ap­par­ent­ly un­sure about where they should sit. The stu­dents from Beaux­ba­tons had cho­sen seats at the Raven­claw ta­ble. They were look­ing around the Great Hall with glum ex­pres­sions on their faces. Three of them were still clutch­ing scarves and shawls around their heads.

“It's not that cold,” said Hermione de­fen­sive­ly. “Why didn't they bring cloaks?”

“Over here! Come and sit over here!” Ron hissed. “Over here! Hermione, budge up, make a space -”

“What?”

“Too late,” said Ron bit­ter­ly.

Vik­tor Krum and his fel­low Durm­strang stu­dents had set­tled them­selves at the Slytherin ta­ble. Har­ry could see Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle look­ing very smug about this. As he watched, Mal­foy bent for­ward to speak to Krum.

“Yeah, that's right, smarm up to him, Mal­foy,” said Ron scathing­ly. “I bet Krum can see right through him, though…bet he gets peo­ple fawn­ing over him all the time.…Where d'you reck­on they're go­ing to sleep? We could of­fer him a space in our dor­mi­to­ry, Har­ry…I wouldn't mind giv­ing him my bed, I could kip on a camp bed.”

Hermione snort­ed.

“They look a lot hap­pi­er than the Beaux­ba­tons lot,” said Har­ry. The Durm­strang stu­dents were pulling off their heavy furs and look­ing up at the star­ry black ceil­ing with ex­pres­sions of in­ter­est; a cou­ple of them were pick­ing up the gold­en plates and gob­lets and ex­am­in­ing them, ap­par­ent­ly im­pressed.

Up at the staff ta­ble, Filch, the care­tak­er, was adding chairs. He was wear­ing his moldy old tail­coat in hon­or of the oc­ca­sion. Har­ry was sur­prised to see that he added four chairs, two on ei­ther side of Dum­ble­dore's.

“But there are on­ly two ex­tra peo­ple,” Har­ry said. “Why's Filch putting out four chairs, who else is com­ing?”

“Eh?” said Ron vague­ly. He was still star­ing avid­ly at Krum.

When all the stu­dents had en­tered the Hall and set­tled down at their House ta­bles, the staff en­tered, fil­ing up to the top ta­ble and tak­ing their seats. Last in line were Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime. When their head­mistress ap­peared, the pupils from Beaux­ba­tons leapt to their feet. A few of the Hog­warts stu­dents laughed. The Beaux­ba­tons par­ty ap­peared quite un­em­bar­rassed, how­ev­er, and did not re­sume their seats un­til Madame Maxime had sat down on Dum­ble­dore's left-​hand side. Dum­ble­dore re­mained stand­ing, and a si­lence fell over the Great Hall.

“Good evening, ladies and gen­tle­men, ghosts and - most par­tic­ular­ly - guests,” said Dum­ble­dore, beam­ing around at the for­eign stu­dents. “I have great plea­sure in wel­com­ing you all to Hog­warts. I hope and trust that your stay here will be both com­fort­able and en­joy­able.”

One of the Beaux­ba­tons girls still clutch­ing a muf­fler around her head gave what was un­mis­tak­ably a de­ri­sive laugh.

“No one's mak­ing you stay!” Hermione whis­pered, bristling at her.

“The tour­na­ment will be of­fi­cial­ly opened at the end of the feast,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I now in­vite you all to eat, drink, and make your­selves at home!”

He sat down, and Har­ry saw Karkaroff lean for­ward at once and en­gage him in con­ver­sa­tion.

The plates in front of them filled with food as usu­al. The house-​elves in the kitchen seemed to have pulled out all the stops; there was a greater va­ri­ety of dish­es in front of them than Har­ry had ev­er seen, in­clud­ing sev­er­al that were def­inite­ly for­eign.

“What's that?” said Ron, point­ing at a large dish of some sort of shell­fish stew that stood be­side a large steak-​and-​kid­ney pud­ding.

“Bouil­labaisse,” said Hermione.

“Bless you,” said Ron.

“It's French,” said Hermione, “I had it on hol­iday sum­mer be­fore last. It's very nice.”

“I'll take your word for it,” said Ron, help­ing him­self to black pud­ding.

The Great Hall seemed some­how much more crowd­ed than usu­al, even though there were bare­ly twen­ty ad­di­tion­al stu­dents there; per­haps it was be­cause their dif­fer­ent­ly col­ored uni­forms stood out so clear­ly against the black of the Hog­warts' robes. Now that they had re­moved their furs, the Durm­strang stu­dents were re­vealed to be wear­ing robes of a deep blood­red.

Ha­grid si­dled in­to the Hall through a door be­hind the staff ta­ble twen­ty min­utes af­ter the start of the feast. He slid in­to his seat at the end and waved at Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione with a very heav­ily ban­daged hand.

“Skrewts do­ing all right, Ha­grid?” Har­ry called.

“Thriv­in',” Ha­grid called back hap­pi­ly.

“Yeah, I'll just bet they are,” said Ron qui­et­ly. “Looks like they've fi­nal­ly found a food they like, doesn't it? Ha­grid's fin­gers.”

At that mo­ment, a voice said, “Ex­cuse me, are you want­ing ze bouil­labaisse?”

It was the girl from Beaux­ba­tons who had laughed dur­ing Dum­ble­dore's speech. She had fi­nal­ly re­moved her muf­fler. A long sheet of sil­very-​blonde hair fell al­most to her waist. She had large, deep blue eyes, and very white, even teeth.

Ron went pur­ple. He stared up at her, opened his mouth to re­ply, but noth­ing came out ex­cept a faint gur­gling noise.

“Yeah, have it,” said Har­ry, push­ing the dish to­ward the girl.

“You 'ave fin­ished wiz it?”

“Yeah,” Ron said breath­less­ly. “Yeah, it was ex­cel­lent.”

The girl picked up the dish and car­ried it care­ful­ly off to the Raven­claw ta­ble. Ron was still gog­gling at the girl as though he had nev­er seen one be­fore. Har­ry start­ed to laugh. The sound seemed to jog Ron back to his sens­es.

“She's a veela!” he said hoarse­ly to Har­ry.

“Of course she isn't!” said Hermione tart­ly. “I don't see any­one else gap­ing at her like an id­iot!”

But she wasn't en­tire­ly right about that. As the girl crossed the Hall, many boys' heads turned, and some of them seemed to have be­come tem­porar­ily speech­less, just like Ron.

“I'm telling you, that's not a nor­mal girl!” said Ron, lean­ing side­ways so he could keep a clear view of her. “They don't make them like that at Hog­warts!”

“They make them okay at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry with­out think­ing. Cho hap­pened to be sit­ting on­ly a few places away from the girl with the sil­very hair.

“When you've both put your eyes back in,” said Hermione briskly, “you'll be able to see who's just ar­rived.”

She was point­ing up at the staff ta­ble. The two re­main­ing emp­ty seats had just been filled. Lu­do Bag­man was now sit­ting on Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff's oth­er side, while Mr. Crouch, Per­cy's boss, was next to Madame Maxime.

“What are they do­ing here?” said Har­ry in sur­prise.

“They or­ga­nized the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment, didn't they?” said Hermione. “I sup­pose they want­ed to be here to see it start.”

When the sec­ond course ar­rived they no­ticed a num­ber of un­fa­mil­iar desserts too. Ron ex­am­ined an odd sort of pale blanc­mange close­ly, then moved it care­ful­ly a few inch­es to his right, so that it would be clear­ly vis­ible from the Raven­claw ta­ble. The girl who looked like a veela ap­peared to have eat­en enough, how­ev­er, and did not come over to get it.

Once the gold­en plates had been wiped clean, Dum­ble­dore stood up again. A pleas­ant sort of ten­sion seemed to fill the Hall now. Har­ry felt a slight thrill of ex­cite­ment, won­der­ing what was com­ing. Sev­er­al seats down from them, Fred and George were lean­ing for­ward, star­ing at Dum­ble­dore with great con­cen­tra­tion.

“The mo­ment has come,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing around at the sea of up­turned faces. “The Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment is about to start. I would like to say a few words of ex­pla­na­tion be­fore we bring in the cas­ket -”

“The what?” Har­ry mut­tered.

Ron shrugged.

“- just to clar­ify the pro­ce­dure that we will be fol­low­ing this year. But first, let me in­tro­duce, for those who do not know them, Mr. Bartemius Crouch, Head of the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation” - there was a smat­ter­ing of po­lite ap­plause - “and Mr. Lu­do Bag­man, Head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Games and Sports.”

There was a much loud­er round of ap­plause for Bag­man than for Crouch, per­haps be­cause of his fame as a Beat­er, or sim­ply be­cause he looked so much more lik­able. He ac­knowl­edged it with a jovial wave of his hand. Bartemius Crouch did not smile or wave when his name was an­nounced. Re­mem­ber­ing him in his neat suit at the Quid­ditch World Cup, Har­ry thought he looked strange in wiz­ard's robes. His tooth­brush mus­tache and se­vere part­ing looked very odd next to Dum­ble­dore's long white hair and beard.

“Mr. Bag­man and Mr. Crouch have worked tire­less­ly over the last few months on the ar­range­ments for the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment,” Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, “and they will be join­ing my­self, Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime on the pan­el that will judge the cham­pi­ons' ef­forts.”

At the men­tion of the word “cham­pi­ons,” the at­ten­tive­ness of the lis­ten­ing stu­dents seemed to sharp­en. Per­haps Dum­ble­dore had no­ticed their sud­den still­ness, for he smiled as he said, “The cas­ket, then, if you please, Mr. Filch.”

Filch, who had been lurk­ing un­no­ticed in a far cor­ner of the Hall, now ap­proached Dum­ble­dore car­ry­ing a great wood­en chest en­crust­ed with jew­els. It looked ex­treme­ly old. A mur­mur of ex­cit­ed in­ter­est rose from the watch­ing stu­dents; Den­nis Creevey ac­tu­al­ly stood on his chair to see it prop­er­ly, but, be­ing so tiny, his head hard­ly rose above any­one else's.

“The in­struc­tions for the tasks the cham­pi­ons will face this year have al­ready been ex­am­ined by Mr. Crouch and Mr. Bag­man,” said Dum­ble­dore as Filch placed the chest care­ful­ly on the ta­ble be­fore him, “and they have made the nec­es­sary ar­range­ments for each chal­lenge. There will be three tasks, spaced through­out the school year, and they will test the cham­pi­ons in many dif­fer­ent ways.. their mag­ical prowess - their dar­ing - their pow­ers of de­duc­tion - and, of course, their abil­ity to cope with dan­ger.”

At this last word, the Hall was filled with a si­lence so ab­so­lute that no­body seemed to be breath­ing.

“As you know, three cham­pi­ons com­pete in the tour­na­ment,” Dum­ble­dore went on calm­ly, “one from each of the par­tic­ipat­ing schools. They will be marked on how well they per­form each of the Tour­na­ment tasks and the cham­pi­on with the high­est to­tal af­ter task three will win the Tri­wiz­ard Cup. The cham­pi­ons will be cho­sen by an im­par­tial se­lec­tor: the Gob­let of Fire.”

Dum­ble­dore now took out his wand and tapped three times up­on the top of the cas­ket. The lid creaked slow­ly open. Dum­ble­dore reached in­side it and pulled out a large, rough­ly hewn wood­en cup. It would have been en­tire­ly un­re­mark­able had it not been full to the brim with danc­ing blue-​white flames.

Dum­ble­dore closed the cas­ket and placed the gob­let care­ful­ly on top of it, where it would be clear­ly vis­ible to ev­ery­one in the Hall.

“Any­body wish­ing to sub­mit them­selves as cham­pi­on must write their name and school clear­ly up­on a slip of parch­ment and drop it in­to the gob­let,” said Dum­ble­dore. "As­pir­ing cham­pi­ons have twen­ty-​four hours in which to put their names for­ward. To­mor­row night, Hal­loween, the gob­let will re­turn the names of the three it has judged most wor­thy to rep­re­sent their schools. The gob­let will be placed in the en­trance hall tonight, where it will be freely ac­ces­si­ble to all those wish­ing to com­pete.

“To en­sure that no un­der­age stu­dent yields to temp­ta­tion,” said Dum­ble­dore, "I will be draw­ing an Age Line around the Gob­let of Fire once it has been placed in the en­trance hall. No­body un­der the age of sev­en­teen will be able to cross this line.

“Fi­nal­ly, I wish to im­press up­on any of you wish­ing to com­pete that this tour­na­ment is not to be en­tered in­to light­ly. Once a cham­pi­on has been se­lect­ed by the Gob­let of Fire, he or she is obliged to see the tour­na­ment through to the end. The plac­ing of your name in the gob­let con­sti­tutes a bind­ing, mag­ical con­tract. There can be no change of heart once you have be­come a cham­pi­on. Please be very sure, there­fore, that you are whole­heart­ed­ly pre­pared to play be­fore you drop your name in­to the gob­let. Now, I think it is time for bed. Good night to you all.”

“An Age Line!” Fred Weasley said, his eyes glint­ing, as they all made their way across the Hall to the doors in­to the en­trance hall. “Well, that should be fooled by an Ag­ing Po­tion, shouldn't it? And once your name's in that gob­let, you're laugh­ing - it can't tell whether you're sev­en­teen or not!”

“But I don't think any­one un­der sev­en­teen will stand a chance,” said Hermione, “we just haven't learned enough…”

“Speak for your­self,” said George short­ly. “You'll try and get in, won't you, Har­ry?”

Har­ry thought briefly of Dum­ble­dore's in­sis­tence that no­body un­der sev­en­teen should sub­mit their name, but then the won­der­ful pic­ture of him­self win­ning the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment filled his mind again.…He won­dered how an­gry Dum­ble­dore would be if some­one younger than sev­en­teen did find a way to get over the Age Line.

“Where is he?” said Ron, who wasn't lis­ten­ing to a word of this con­ver­sa­tion, but look­ing through the crowd to see what had be­come of Krum. “Dum­ble­dore didn't say where the Durm­strang peo­ple are sleep­ing, did he?”

But this query was an­swered al­most in­stant­ly; they were lev­el with the Slytherin ta­ble now, and Karkaroff had just bus­tled up to his stu­dents.

“Back to the ship, then,” he was say­ing. “Vik­tor, how are you feel­ing? Did you eat enough? Should I send for some mulled wine from the kitchens?”

Har­ry saw Krum shake his head as he pulled his furs back on. “Pro­fes­sor, Ivood like some vine,” said one of the oth­er Durm­strang boys hope­ful­ly.

“I wasn't of­fer­ing it to you, Po­li­akoff,” snapped Karkaroff, his warm­ly pa­ter­nal air van­ish­ing in an in­stant. “I no­tice you have drib­bled food all down the front of your robes again, dis­gust­ing boy -”

Karkaroff turned and led his stu­dents to­ward the doors, reach­ing them at ex­act­ly the same mo­ment as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione. Har­ry stopped to let him walk through first.

“Thank you,” said Karkaroff care­less­ly, glanc­ing at him.

And then Karkaroff froze. He turned his head back to Har­ry and stared at him as though he couldn't be­lieve his eyes. Be­hind their head­mas­ter, the stu­dents from Durm­strang came to a halt too. Karkaroff's eyes moved slow­ly up Har­ry's face and fixed up­on his scar. The Durm­strang stu­dents were star­ing cu­ri­ous­ly at Har­ry too. Out of the cor­ner of his eye, Har­ry saw com­pre­hen­sion dawn on a few of their faces. The boy with food all down his front nudged the girl next to him and point­ed open­ly at Har­ry's fore­head.

“Yeah, that's Har­ry Pot­ter,” said a growl­ing voice from be­hind them.

Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff spun around. Mad-​Eye Moody was stand­ing there, lean­ing heav­ily on his staff, his mag­ical eye glar­ing un­blink­ing­ly at the Durm­strang head­mas­ter.

The col­or drained from Karkaroff's face as Har­ry watched. A ter­ri­ble look of min­gled fury and fear came over him.

“You!” he said, star­ing at Moody as though un­sure he was re­al­ly see­ing him.

“Me,” said Moody grim­ly. “And un­less you've got any­thing to say to Pot­ter, Karkaroff, you might want to move. You're block­ing the door­way.”

It was true; half the stu­dents in the Hall were now wait­ing be­hind them, look­ing over one an­oth­er's shoul­ders to see what was caus­ing the holdup.

With­out an­oth­er word, Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff swept his stu­dents away with him. Moody watched him un­til he was out of sight, his mag­ical eye fixed up­on his back, a look of in­tense dis­like up­on his mu­ti­lat­ed face.



As the next day was Sat­ur­day, most stu­dents would nor­mal­ly have break­fast­ed late. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, how­ev­er, were not alone in ris­ing much ear­li­er than they usu­al­ly did on week­ends. When they went down in­to the en­trance hall, they saw about twen­ty peo­ple milling around it, some of them eat­ing toast, all ex­am­in­ing the Gob­let of Fire. It had been placed in the cen­ter of the hall on the stool that nor­mal­ly bore the Sort­ing Hat. A thin gold­en line had been traced on the floor, form­ing a cir­cle ten feet around it in ev­ery di­rec­tion.

“Any­one put their name in yet?” Ron asked a third-​year girl ea­ger­ly.

“All the Durm­strang lot,” she replied. “But I haven't seen any­one from Hog­warts yet.”

“Bet some of them put it in last night af­ter we'd all gone to bed,” said Har­ry. “I would've if it had been me…wouldn't have want­ed ev­ery­one watch­ing. What if the gob­let just gob­bed you right back out again?”

Some­one laughed be­hind Har­ry. Turn­ing, he saw Fred, George, and Lee Jor­dan hur­ry­ing down the stair­case, all three of them look­ing ex­treme­ly ex­cit­ed.

“Done it,” Fred said in a tri­umphant whis­per to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione. “Just tak­en it.”

“What?” said Ron.

“The Ag­ing Po­tion, dung brains,” said Fred.

“One drop each,” said George, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er with glee. “We on­ly need to be a few months old­er.”

“We're go­ing to split the thou­sand Galleons be­tween the three of us if one of us wins,” said Lee, grin­ning broad­ly.

“I'm not sure this is go­ing to work, you know,” said Hermione warn­ing­ly. “I'm sure Dum­ble­dore will have thought of this.”

Fred, George, and Lee ig­nored her.

“Ready?” Fred said to the oth­er two, quiv­er­ing with ex­cite­ment. “C'mon, then - I'll go first -”

Har­ry watched, fas­ci­nat­ed, as Fred pulled a slip of parch­ment out of his pock­et bear­ing the words Fred Weasley - Hog­warts. Fred walked right up to the edge of the line and stood there, rock­ing on his toes like a div­er prepar­ing for a fifty-​foot drop. Then, with the eyes of ev­ery per­son in the en­trance hall up­on him, he took a great breath and stepped over the line.

For a split sec­ond Har­ry thought it had worked - George cer­tain­ly thought so, for he let out a yell of tri­umph and leapt af­ter Fred - but next mo­ment, there was a loud siz­zling sound, and both twins were hurled out of the gold­en cir­cle as though they had been thrown by an in­vis­ible shot-​put­ter. They land­ed painful­ly, ten feet away on the cold stone floor, and to add in­sult to in­jury, there was a loud pop­ping noise, and both of them sprout­ed iden­ti­cal long white beards.

The en­trance hall rang with laugh­ter. Even Fred and George joined in, once they had got­ten to their feet and tak­en a good look at each oth­er's beards.

“I did warn you,” said a deep, amused voice, and ev­ery­one turned to see Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore com­ing out of the Great Hall. He sur­veyed Fred and George, his eyes twin­kling. “I sug­gest you both go up to Madam Pom­frey. She is al­ready tend­ing to Miss Fawcett, of Raven­claw, and Mr. Sum­mers, of Huf­flepuff, both of whom de­cid­ed to age them­selves up a lit­tle too. Though I must say, nei­ther of their beards is any­thing like as fine as yours.”

Fred and George set off for the hos­pi­tal wing, ac­com­pa­nied by Lee, who was howl­ing with laugh­ter, and Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, al­so chortling, went in to break­fast.

The dec­ora­tions in the Great Hall had changed this morn­ing. As it was Hal­loween, a cloud of live bats was flut­ter­ing around the en­chant­ed ceil­ing, while hun­dreds of carved pump­kins leered from ev­ery cor­ner. Har­ry led the way over to Dean and Sea­mus, who were dis­cussing those Hog­warts stu­dents of sev­en­teen or over who might be en­ter­ing.

“There's a ru­mor go­ing around that War­ring­ton got up ear­ly and put his name in,” Dean told Har­ry. “That big bloke from Slytherin who looks like a sloth.”

Har­ry, who had played Quid­ditch against War­ring­ton, shook his head in dis­gust.

“We can't have a Slytherin cham­pi­on!”

“And all the Huf­flepuffs are talk­ing about Dig­gory,” said Sea­mus con­temp­tu­ous­ly. “But I wouldn't have thought he'd have want­ed to risk his good looks.”

“Lis­ten!” said Hermione sud­den­ly.

Peo­ple were cheer­ing out in the en­trance hall. They all swiveled around in their seats and saw An­geli­na John­son com­ing in­to the Hall, grin­ning in an em­bar­rassed sort of way. A tall black girl who played Chas­er on the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team, An­geli­na came over to them, sat down, and said, “Well, I've done it! Just put my name in!”

“You're kid­ding!” said Ron, look­ing im­pressed.

“Are you sev­en­teen, then?” asked Har­ry.

“Course she is, can't see a beard, can you?” said Ron.

“I had my birth­day last week,” said An­geli­na.

“Well, I'm glad some­one from Gryffind­or's en­ter­ing,” said Hermione. “I re­al­ly hope you get it, An­geli­na!”

“Thanks, Hermione,” said An­geli­na, smil­ing at her.

Yeah, bet­ter you than Pret­ty-​Boy Dig­gory, said Sea­mus, caus­ing sev­er­al Huf­flepuffs pass­ing their ta­ble to scowl heav­ily at him.

“What're we go­ing to do to­day, then?” Ron asked Har­ry and Hermione when they had fin­ished break­fast and were leav­ing the Great Hall.

“We haven't been down to vis­it Ha­grid yet,” said Har­ry.

“Okay,” said Ron, “just as long as he doesn't ask us to do­nate a few fin­gers to the skrewts.”

A look of great ex­cite­ment sud­den­ly dawned on Hermione's face.

“I've just re­al­ized - I haven't asked Ha­grid to join S.P.E.W. yet!” she said bright­ly. “Wait for me, will you, while I nip up­stairs and get the badges?”

“What is it with her?” said Ron, ex­as­per­at­ed, as Hermione ran away up the mar­ble stair­case.

“Hey, Ron,” said Har­ry sud­den­ly. “It's your friend…”

The stu­dents from Beaux­ba­tons were com­ing through the front doors from the grounds, among them, the veela-​girl. Those gath­ered around the Gob­let of Fire stood back to let them pass, watch­ing ea­ger­ly.

Madame Maxime en­tered the hall be­hind her stu­dents and or­ga­nized them in­to a line. One by one, the Beaux­ba­tons stu­dents stepped across the Age Line and dropped their slips of parch­ment in­to the blue-​white flames. As each name en­tered the fire, it turned briefly red and emit­ted sparks.

“What d'you reck­on'll hap­pen to the ones who aren't cho­sen?” Ron mut­tered to Har­ry as the veela-​girl dropped her parch­ment in­to the Gob­let of Fire. “Reck­on they'll go back to school, or hang around to watch the tour­na­ment?”

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry. “Hang around, I sup­pose.…Madame Maxime's stay­ing to judge, isn't she?”

When all the Beaux­ba­tons stu­dents had sub­mit­ted their names, Madame Maxime led them back out of the hall and out on­to the grounds again.

“Where are they sleep­ing, then?” said Ron, mov­ing to­ward the front doors and star­ing af­ter them.

A loud rat­tling noise be­hind them an­nounced Hermione's reap­pear­ance with the box of S. P. E.W. badges.

“Oh good, hur­ry up,” said Ron, and he jumped down the stone steps, keep­ing his eyes on the back of the veela-​girl, who was now halfway across the lawn with Madame Maxime.

As they neared Ha­grid's cab­in on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est, the mys­tery of the Beaux­ba­tons' sleep­ing quar­ters was solved. The gi­gan­tic pow­der-​blue car­riage in which they had ar­rived had been parked two hun­dred yards from Ha­grid's front door, and the stu­dents were climb­ing back in­side it. The ele­phan­tine fly­ing hors­es that had pulled the car­riage were now graz­ing in a makeshift pad­dock along­side it.

Har­ry knocked on Ha­grid's door, and Fang's boom­ing barks an­swered in­stant­ly.

“'Bout time!” said Ha­grid, when he'd flung open the door. “Thought you lot'd for­got­ten where I live!”

“We've been re­al­ly busy, Hag -” Hermione start­ed to say, but then she stopped dead, look­ing up at Ha­grid, ap­par­ent­ly lost for words.

Ha­grid was wear­ing his best (and very hor­ri­ble) hairy brown suit, plus a checked yel­low-​and-​or­ange tie. This wasn't the worst of it, though; he had ev­ident­ly tried to tame his hair, us­ing large quan­ti­ties of what ap­peared to be axle grease. It was now slicked down in­to two bunch­es - per­haps he had tried a pony­tail like Bill's, but found he had too much hair. The look didn't re­al­ly suit Ha­grid at all. For a mo­ment, Hermione gog­gled at him, then, ob­vi­ous­ly de­cid­ing not to com­ment, she said, “Erm - where are the skrewts.”

“Out by the pump­kin patch,” said Ha­grid hap­pi­ly. “They're get­tin' mas­sive, mus' be near­ly three foot long now. On'y trou­ble is, they've start­ed killin' each oth­er.”

“Oh no, re­al­ly?” said Hermione, shoot­ing a re­pres­sive look at Ron, who, star­ing at Ha­grid's odd hairstyle, had just opened his mouth to say some­thing about it.

“Yeah,” said Ha­grid sad­ly. “S' okay, though, I've got 'em in sep­arate box­es now. Still got abou' twen­ty.”

“Well, that's lucky,” said Ron. Ha­grid missed the sar­casm.

Ha­grid's cab­in com­prised a sin­gle room, in one cor­ner of which was a gi­gan­tic bed cov­ered in a patch­work quilt. A sim­ilar­ly enor­mous wood­en ta­ble and chairs stood in front of the fire be­neath the quan­ti­ty of cured hams and dead birds hang­ing from the ceil­ing. They sat down at the ta­ble while Ha­grid start­ed to make tea, and were soon im­mersed in yet more dis­cus­sion of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. Ha­grid seemed quite as ex­cit­ed about it as they were.

“You wait,” he said, grin­ning. “You jus' wait. Yer go­ing ter see some stuff yeh've nev­er seen be­fore. Firs' task…ah, but I'm not sup­posed ter say.”

“Go on, Ha­grid!” Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione urged him, but he just shook his head, grin­ning.

“I don' want ter spoil it fer yeh,” said Ha­grid. “But it's gonna be spec­tac­ular, I'll tell yeh that. Them cham­pi­ons're go­ing ter have their work cut out. Nev­er thought I'd live ter see the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment played again!”

They end­ed up hav­ing lunch with Ha­grid, though they didn't eat much - Ha­grid had made what he said was a beef casse­role, but af­ter Hermione un­earthed a large talon in hers, she, Har­ry, and Ron rather lost their ap­petites. How­ev­er, they en­joyed them­selves try­ing to make Ha­grid tell them what the tasks in the tour­na­ment were go­ing to be, spec­ulat­ing which of the en­trants were like­ly to be se­lect­ed as cham­pi­ons, and won­der­ing whether Fred and George were beard­less yet.

A light rain had start­ed to fall by midafter­noon; it was very cozy sit­ting by the fire, lis­ten­ing to the gen­tle pat­ter of the drops on the win­dow, watch­ing Ha­grid darn­ing his socks and ar­gu­ing with Hermione about house-​elves - for he flat­ly re­fused to join S.P.E.W. when she showed him her badges.

“It'd be doin' 'em an un­kind­ness, Hermione,” he said grave­ly, thread­ing a mas­sive bone nee­dle with thick yel­low yarn. “It's in their na­ture ter look af­ter hu­mans, that's what they like, see? Yeh'd be makin' 'em un­hap­py ter take away their work, an' in­sutin' 'em if yeh tried ter pay 'em.”

“But Har­ry set Dob­by free, and he was over the moon about it!” said Hermione. “And we heard he's ask­ing for wages now!”

“Yeah, well, yeh get weirdos in ev­ery breed. I'm not sayin' there isn't the odd elf who'd take free­dom, but yeh'll nev­er per­suade most of 'em ter do it - no, noth­in' doin', Hermione.”

Hermione looked very cross in­deed and stuffed her box of badges back in­to her cloak pock­et.

By half past five it was grow­ing dark, and Ron, Har­ry, and Hermione de­cid­ed it was time to get back up to the cas­tle for the Hal­loween feast - and, more im­por­tant, the an­nounce­ment of the school cham­pi­ons.

“I'll come with yeh,” said Ha­grid, putting away his darn­ing. “Jus' give us a sec.”

Ha­grid got up, went across to the chest of draw­ers be­side his bed, and be­gan search­ing for some­thing in­side it. They didn't pay too much at­ten­tion un­til a tru­ly hor­ri­ble smell reached their nos­trils. Cough­ing, Ron said, “Ha­grid, what's that?”

“Eh?” said Ha­grid, turn­ing around with a large bot­tle in his hand. “Don' yeh like it?”

“Is that af­ter­shave?” said Hermione in a slight­ly choked voice.

“Er - eau de cologne,” Ha­grid mut­tered. He was blush­ing.

“Maybe it's a bit much,” he said gruffly. “I'll go take it off, hang on…”

He stumped out of the cab­in, and they saw him wash­ing him­self vig­or­ous­ly in the wa­ter bar­rel out­side the win­dow.

“Eau de cologne?” said Hermione in amaze­ment. “Ha­grid?”

“And what's with the hair and the suit?” said Har­ry in an un­der­tone.

“Look!” said Ron sud­den­ly, point­ing out of the win­dow. Ha­grid had just straight­ened up and turned 'round. If he had been blush­ing be­fore, it was noth­ing to what he was do­ing now. Get­ting to their feet very cau­tious­ly, so that Ha­grid wouldn't spot them, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione peered through the win­dow and saw that Madame Maxime and the Beaux­ba­tons stu­dents had just emerged from their car­riage, clear­ly about to set off for the feast too. They couldn't hear what Ha­grid was say­ing, but he was talk­ing to Madame Maxime with a rapt, misty-​eyed ex­pres­sion Har­ry had on­ly ev­er seen him wear once be­fore - when he had been look­ing at the ba­by drag­on, Nor­bert.

“He's go­ing up to the cas­tle with her!” said Hermione in­dig­nant­ly. “I thought he was wait­ing for us!”

With­out so much as a back­ward glance at his cab­in, Ha­grid was trudg­ing off up the grounds with Madame Maxime, the Beaux­ba­tons stu­dents fol­low­ing in their wake, jog­ging to keep up with their enor­mous strides.

“He fan­cies her!” said Ron in­cred­ulous­ly. “Well, if they end up hav­ing chil­dren, they'll be set­ting a world record - bet any ba­by of theirs would weigh about a ton.”

They let them­selves out of the cab­in and shut the door be­hind them. It was sur­pris­ing­ly dark out­side. Draw­ing their cloaks more close­ly around them­selves, they set off up the slop­ing lawns.

“Ooh it's them, look!” Hermione whis­pered.

The Durm­strang par­ty was walk­ing up to­ward the cas­tle from the lake. Vik­tor Krum was walk­ing side by side with Karkaroff, and the oth­er Durm­strang stu­dents were strag­gling along be­hind them. Ron watched Krum ex­cit­ed­ly, but Krum did not look around as he reached the front doors a lit­tle ahead of Hermione, Ron, and Har­ry and pro­ceed­ed through them.

When they en­tered the can­dlelit Great Hall it was al­most full. The Gob­let of Fire had been moved; it was now stand­ing in front of Dum­ble­dore's emp­ty chair at the teach­ers' ta­ble. Fred and George - clean-​shaven again - seemed to have tak­en their dis­ap­point­ment fair­ly well.

“Hope it's An­geli­na,” said Fred as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sat down.

“So do I!” said Hermione breath­less­ly. “Well, we'll soon know!”

The Hal­loween feast seemed to take much longer than usu­al. Per­haps be­cause it was their sec­ond feast in two days, Har­ry didn't seem to fan­cy the ex­trav­agant­ly pre­pared food as much as he would have nor­mal­ly. Like ev­ery­one else in the Hall, judg­ing by the con­stant­ly cran­ing necks, the im­pa­tient ex­pres­sions on ev­ery face, the fid­get­ing, and the stand­ing up to see whether Dum­ble­dore had fin­ished eat­ing yet, Har­ry sim­ply want­ed the plates to clear, and to hear who had been se­lect­ed as cham­pi­ons.

At long last, the gold­en plates re­turned to their orig­inal spot­less state; there was a sharp up­swing in the lev­el of noise with­in the Hall, which died away al­most in­stant­ly as Dum­ble­dore got to his feet. On ei­ther side of him, Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff and Madame Maxime looked as tense and ex­pec­tant as any­one. Lu­do Bag­man was beam­ing and wink­ing at var­ious stu­dents. Mr. Crouch, how­ev­er, looked quite un­in­ter­est­ed, al­most bored.

“Well, the gob­let is al­most ready to make its de­ci­sion,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I es­ti­mate that it re­quires one more minute. Now, when the cham­pi­ons' names are called, I would ask them please to come up to the top of the Hall, walk along the staff ta­ble, and go through in­to the next cham­ber” - he in­di­cat­ed the door be­hind the staff ta­ble - “where they will be re­ceiv­ing their first in­struc­tions.”

He took out his wand and gave a great sweep­ing wave with it; at once, all the can­dles ex­cept those in­side the carved pump­kins were ex­tin­guished, plung­ing them in­to a state of semi­dark­ness. The Gob­let of Fire now shone more bright­ly than any­thing in the whole Hall, the sparkling bright, bluey-​white­ness of the flames al­most painful on the eyes. Ev­ery­one watched, wait­ing.…A few peo­ple kept check­ing their watch­es…

“Any sec­ond,” Lee Jor­dan whis­pered, two seats away from Har­ry.

The flames in­side the gob­let turned sud­den­ly red again. Sparks be­gan to fly from it. Next mo­ment, a tongue of flame shot in­to the air, a charred piece of parch­ment flut­tered out of it - the whole room gasped.

Dum­ble­dore caught the piece of parch­ment and held it at arm's length, so that he could read it by the light of the flames, which had turned back to blue-​white.

“The cham­pi­on for Durm­strang,” he read, in a strong, clear voice, “will be Vik­tor Krum.”

“No sur­pris­es there!” yelled Ron as a storm of ap­plause and cheer­ing swept the Hall. Har­ry saw Vik­tor Krum rise from the Slytherin ta­ble and slouch up to­ward Dum­ble­dore; he turned right, walked along the staff ta­ble, and dis­ap­peared through the door in­to the next cham­ber.

“Bra­vo, Vik­tor!” boomed Karkaroff, so loud­ly that ev­ery­one could hear him, even over all the ap­plause. “Knew you had it in you!”

The clap­ping and chat­ting died down. Now ev­ery­one's at­ten­tion was fo­cused again on the gob­let, which, sec­onds lat­er, turned red once more. A sec­ond piece of parch­ment shot out of it, pro­pelled by the flames.

“The cham­pi­on for Beaux­ba­tons,” said Dum­ble­dore, “is Fleur Dela­cour!”

“It's her, Ron!” Har­ry shout­ed as the girl who so re­sem­bled a veela got grace­ful­ly to her feet, shook back her sheet of sil­very blonde hair, and swept up be­tween the Raven­claw and Huf­flepuff ta­bles.

“Oh look, they're all dis­ap­point­ed,” Hermione said over the noise, nod­ding to­ward the re­main­der of the Beaux­ba­tons par­ty. “Dis­ap­point­ed” was a bit of an un­der­state­ment, Har­ry thought. Two of the girls who had not been se­lect­ed had dis­solved in­to tears and were sob­bing with their heads on their arms.

When Fleur Dela­cour too had van­ished in­to the side cham­ber, si­lence fell again, but this time it was a si­lence so stiff with ex­cite­ment you could al­most taste it. The Hog­warts cham­pi­on next…

And the Gob­let of Fire turned red once more; sparks show­ered out of it; the tongue of flame shot high in­to the air, and from its tip Dum­ble­dore pulled the third piece of parch­ment.

“The Hog­warts cham­pi­on,” he called, “is Cedric Dig­gory!”

“No! ” said Ron loud­ly, but no­body heard him ex­cept Har­ry; the up­roar from the next ta­ble was too great. Ev­ery sin­gle Huf­flepuff had jumped to his or her feet, scream­ing and stamp­ing, as Cedric made his way past them, grin­ning broad­ly, and head­ed off to­ward the cham­ber be­hind the teach­ers' ta­ble. In­deed, the ap­plause for Cedric went on so long that it was some time be­fore Dum­ble­dore could make him­self heard again.

“Ex­cel­lent!” Dum­ble­dore called hap­pi­ly as at last the tu­mult died down. “Well, we now have our three cham­pi­ons. I am sure I can count up­on all of you, in­clud­ing the re­main­ing stu­dents from Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang, to give your cham­pi­ons ev­ery ounce of sup­port you can muster. By cheer­ing your cham­pi­on on, you will con­tribute in a very re­al -”

But Dum­ble­dore sud­den­ly stopped speak­ing, and it was ap­par­ent to ev­ery­body what had dis­tract­ed him.

The fire in the gob­let had just turned red again. Sparks were fly­ing out of it. A long flame shot sud­den­ly in­to the air, and borne up­on it was an­oth­er piece of parch­ment.

Au­to­mat­ical­ly, it seemed, Dum­ble­dore reached out a long hand and seized the parch­ment. He held it out and stared at the name writ­ten up­on it. There was a long pause, dur­ing which Dum­ble­dore stared at the slip in his hands, and ev­ery­one in the room stared at Dum­ble­dore. And then Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat and read out -

“Har­ry Pot­ter.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


THE FOUR CHAM­PI­ONS



H ar­ry sat there, aware that ev­ery head in the Great Hall had turned to look at him. He was stunned. He felt numb. He was sure­ly dream­ing. He had not heard cor­rect­ly.

There was no ap­plause. A buzzing, as though of an­gry bees, was start­ing to fill the Hall; some stu­dents were stand­ing up to get a bet­ter look at Har­ry as he sat, frozen, in his seat.

Up at the top ta­ble, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had got to her feet and swept past Lu­do Bag­man and Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff to whis­per ur­gent­ly to Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, who bent his ear to­ward her, frown­ing slight­ly.

Har­ry turned to Ron and Hermione; be­yond them, he saw the long Gryffind­or ta­ble all watch­ing him, open­mouthed.

“I didn't put my name in,” Har­ry said blankly. “You know I didn't.”

Both of them stared just as blankly back.

At the top ta­ble, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore had straight­ened up, nod­ding to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Har­ry Pot­ter!” he called again. “Har­ry! Up here, if you please!”

“Go on,” Hermione whis­pered, giv­ing Har­ry a slight push.

Har­ry got to his feet, trod on the hem of his robes, and stum­bled slight­ly. He set off up the gap be­tween the Gryffind­or and Huf­flepuff ta­bles. It felt like an im­mense­ly long walk; the top ta­ble didn't seem to be get­ting any near­er at all, and he could feel hun­dreds and hun­dreds of eyes up­on him, as though each were a search­light. The buzzing grew loud­er and loud­er. Af­ter what seemed like an hour, he was right in front of Dum­ble­dore, feel­ing the stares of all the teach­ers up­on him.

“Well…through the door, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. He wasn't smil­ing.

Har­ry moved off along the teach­ers' ta­ble. Ha­grid was seat­ed right at the end. He did not wink at Har­ry, or wave, or give any of his usu­al signs of greet­ing. He looked com­plete­ly as­ton­ished and stared at Har­ry as he passed like ev­ery­one else. Har­ry went through the door out of the Great Hall and found him­self in a small­er room, lined with paint­ings of witch­es and wiz­ards. A hand­some fire was roar­ing in the fire­place op­po­site him.

The faces in the por­traits turned to look at him as he en­tered. He saw a wiz­ened witch flit out of the frame of her pic­ture and in­to the one next to it, which con­tained a wiz­ard with a wal­rus mus­tache. The wiz­ened witch start­ed whis­per­ing in his ear.

Vik­tor Krum, Cedric Dig­gory, and Fleur Dela­cour were grouped around the fire. They looked strange­ly im­pres­sive, sil­hou­et­ted against the flames. Krum, hunched-​up and brood­ing, was lean­ing against the man­tel­piece, slight­ly apart from the oth­er two. Cedric was stand­ing with his hands be­hind his back, star­ing in­to the fire. Fleur Dela­cour looked around when Har­ry walked in and threw back her sheet of long, sil­very hair.

“What is it?” she said. “Do zey want us back in ze Hall?”

She thought he had come to de­liv­er a mes­sage. Har­ry didn't know how to ex­plain what had just hap­pened. He just stood there, look­ing at the three cham­pi­ons. It struck him how very tall all of them were.

There was a sound of scur­ry­ing feet be­hind him, and Lu­do Bag­man en­tered the room. He took Har­ry by the arm and led him for­ward.

“Ex­traor­di­nary!” he mut­tered, squeez­ing Har­ry's arm. “Ab­so­lute­ly ex­traor­di­nary! Gen­tle­men…la­dy,” he added, ap­proach­ing the fire­side and ad­dress­ing the oth­er three. “May I in­tro­duce - in­cred­ible though it may seem - the fourth Tri­wiz­ard cham­pi­on?”

Vik­tor Krum straight­ened up. His surly face dark­ened as he sur­veyed Har­ry. Cedric looked non­plussed. He looked from Bag­man to Har­ry and back again as though sure he must have mis­heard what Bag­man had said. Fleur Dela­cour, how­ev­er, tossed her hair, smil­ing, and said, “Oh, vairy fun­ny joke, Meester Bag­man.”

“Joke?” Bag­man re­peat­ed, be­wil­dered. “No, no, not at all! Har­ry's name just came out of the Gob­let of Fire!”

Krum's thick eye­brows con­tract­ed slight­ly. Cedric was still look­ing po­lite­ly be­wil­dered. Fleur frowned.

“But ev­ident­ly zair 'as been a mis­take,” she said con­temp­tu­ous­ly to Bag­man. “'E can­not com­pete. 'E is too young.”

“Well…it is amaz­ing,” said Bag­man, rub­bing his smooth chin and smil­ing down at Har­ry. “But, as you know, the age re­stric­tion was on­ly im­posed this year as an ex­tra safe­ty mea­sure. And as his name's come out of the gob­let…I mean, I don't think there can be any duck­ing out at this stage.…It's down in the rules, you're obliged…Har­ry will just have to do the best he -”

The door be­hind them opened again, and a large group of peo­ple came in: Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, fol­lowed close­ly by Mr. Crouch, Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff, Madame Maxime, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Pro­fes­sor Snape. Har­ry heard the buzzing of the hun­dreds of stu­dents on the oth­er side of the wall, be­fore Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall closed the door.

“Madame Maxime!” said Fleur at once, strid­ing over to her head­mistress. “Zey are say­ing zat zis lit­tle boy is to com­pete al­so!”

Some­where un­der Har­ry's numb dis­be­lief he felt a rip­ple of anger. Lit­tle boy?

Madame Maxime had drawn her­self up to her full, and con­sid­er­able, height. The top of her hand­some head brushed the can­dle-​filled chan­de­lier, and her gi­gan­tic black-​satin bo­som swelled.

“What is ze mean­ing of zis, Dumb­ly-​dorr?” she said im­pe­ri­ous­ly.

“I'd rather like to know that my­self, Dum­ble­dore,” said Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff. He was wear­ing a steely smile, and his blue eyes were like chips of ice. “Two Hog­warts cham­pi­ons? I don't re­mem­ber any­one telling me the host school is al­lowed two cham­pi­ons - or have I not read the rules care­ful­ly enough?”

He gave a short and nasty laugh.

“C'est im­pos­si­ble,” said Madame Maxime, whose enor­mous hand with its many su­perb opals was rest­ing up­on Fleur's shoul­der. “'Og­warts can­not 'ave two cham­pi­ons. It is most in­just.”

“We were un­der the im­pres­sion that your Age Line would keep out younger con­tes­tants, Dum­ble­dore,” said Karkaroff, his steely smile still in place, though his eyes were cold­er than ev­er. “Oth­er­wise, we would, of course, have brought along a wider se­lec­tion of can­di­dates from our own schools.”

“It's no one's fault but Pot­ter's, Karkaroff,” said Snape soft­ly. His black eyes were alight with mal­ice. “Don't go blam­ing Dum­ble­dore for Pot­ter's de­ter­mi­na­tion to break rules. He has been cross­ing lines ev­er since he ar­rived here -”

“Thank you, Severus,” said Dum­ble­dore firm­ly, and Snape went qui­et, though his eyes still glint­ed malev­olent­ly through his cur­tain of greasy black hair.

Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was now look­ing down at Har­ry, who looked right back at him, try­ing to dis­cern the ex­pres­sion of the eyes be­hind the half-​moon spec­ta­cles.

“Did you put your name in­to the Gob­let of Fire, Har­ry?” he asked calm­ly.

“No,” said Har­ry. He was very aware of ev­ery­body watch­ing him close­ly. Snape made a soft noise of im­pa­tient dis­be­lief in the shad­ows.

“Did you ask an old­er stu­dent to put it in­to the Gob­let of Fire for you?” said Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, ig­nor­ing Snape.

“No,” said Har­ry ve­he­ment­ly.

“Ah, but of course 'e is ly­ing!” cried Madame Maxime. Snape was now shak­ing his head, his lip curl­ing.

“He could not have crossed the Age Line,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply. “I am sure we are all agreed on that -”

“Dumb­ly-​dorr must 'ave made a mis­take wiz ze line,” said Madame Maxime, shrug­ging.

“It is pos­si­ble, of course,” said Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly.

“Dum­ble­dore, you know per­fect­ly well you did not make a mis­take!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall an­gri­ly. “Re­al­ly, what non­sense! Har­ry could not have crossed the line him­self, and as Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore be­lieves that he did not per­suade an old­er stu­dent to do it for him, I'm sure that should be good enough for ev­ery­body else!”

She shot a very an­gry look at Pro­fes­sor Snape.

“Mr. Crouch…Mr. Bag­man,” said Karkaroff, his voice unc­tu­ous once more, “you are our - er - ob­jec­tive judges. Sure­ly you will agree that this is most ir­reg­ular?”

Bag­man wiped his round, boy­ish face with his hand­ker­chief and looked at Mr. Crouch, who was stand­ing out­side the cir­cle of the fire­light, his face half hid­den in shad­ow. He looked slight­ly eerie, the half dark­ness mak­ing him look much old­er, giv­ing him an al­most skull-​like ap­pear­ance. When he spoke, how­ev­er, it was in his usu­al curt voice.

“We must fol­low the rules, and the rules state clear­ly that those peo­ple whose names come out of the Gob­let of Fire are bound to com­pete in the tour­na­ment.”

“Well, Bar­ty knows the rule book back to front,” said Bag­man, beam­ing and turn­ing back to Karkaroff and Madame Maxime, as though the mat­ter was now closed.

“I in­sist up­on re­sub­mit­ting the names of the rest of my stu­dents,” said Karkaroff. He had dropped his unc­tu­ous tone and his smile now. His face wore a very ug­ly look in­deed. “You will set up the Gob­let of Fire once more, and we will con­tin­ue adding names un­til each school has two cham­pi­ons. It's on­ly fair, Dum­ble­dore.”

“But Karkaroff, it doesn't work like that,” said Bag­man. “The Gob­let of Fire's just gone out - it won't reignite un­til the start of the next tour­na­ment -”

“- in which Durm­strang will most cer­tain­ly not be com­pet­ing!” ex­plod­ed Karkaroff. “Af­ter all our meet­ings and ne­go­ti­ations and com­pro­mis­es, I lit­tle ex­pect­ed some­thing of this na­ture to oc­cur! I have half a mind to leave now!”

“Emp­ty threat, Karkaroff,” growled a voice from near the door. “You can't leave your cham­pi­on now. He's got to com­pete. They've all got to com­pete. Bind­ing mag­ical con­tract, like Dum­ble­dore said. Con­ve­nient, eh?”

Moody had just en­tered the room. He limped to­ward the fire, and with ev­ery right step he took, there was a loud clunk.

“Con­ve­nient?” said Karkaroff. “I'm afraid I don't un­der­stand you, Moody.”

Har­ry could tell he was try­ing to sound dis­dain­ful, as though what Moody was say­ing was bare­ly worth his no­tice, but his hands gave him away; they had balled them­selves in­to fists.

“Don't you?” said Moody qui­et­ly. “It's very sim­ple, Karkaroff. Some­one put Pot­ter's name in that gob­let know­ing he'd have to com­pete if it came out.”

“Ev­ident­ly, some­one 'oo wished to give 'Og­warts two bites at ze ap­ple!” said Madame Maxime.

“I quite agree, Madame Maxime,” said Karkaroff, bow­ing to her. “I shall be lodg­ing com­plaints with the Min­istry of Mag­ic and the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards -”

“If any­one's got rea­son to com­plain, it's Pot­ter,” growled Moody, “but…fun­ny thing…I don't hear him say­ing a word…”

“Why should 'e com­plain?” burst out Fleur Dela­cour, stamp­ing her foot. “'E 'as ze chance to com­pete, 'asn't 'e? We 'ave all been 'op­ing to be cho­sen for weeks and weeks! Ze hon­or for our schools! A thou­sand Galleons in prize mon­ey - zis is a chance many would die for!”

“Maybe some­one's hop­ing Pot­ter is go­ing to die for it,” said Moody, with the mer­est trace of a growl.

An ex­treme­ly tense si­lence fol­lowed these words. Lu­do Bag­man, who was look­ing very anx­ious in­deed, bounced ner­vous­ly up and down on his feet and said, “Moody, old man…what a thing to say!”

“We all know Pro­fes­sor Moody con­sid­ers the morn­ing wast­ed if he hasn't dis­cov­ered six plots to mur­der him be­fore lunchtime,” said Karkaroff loud­ly. "Ap­par­ent­ly he is now teach­ing his stu­dents to fear as­sas­si­na­tion too. An odd qual­ity in a De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er, Dum­ble­dore, but no doubt you had your rea­sons.

“Imag­in­ing things, am I?” growled Moody. “See­ing things, eh? It was a skilled witch or wiz­ard who put the boy's name in that gob­let…”

“Ah, what ev­idence is zere of zat?” said Madame Maxime, throw­ing up her huge hands.

“Be­cause they hood­winked a very pow­er­ful mag­ical ob­ject!” said Moody. “It would have need­ed an ex­cep­tion­al­ly strong Con­fun­dus Charm to bam­boo­zle that gob­let in­to for­get­ting that on­ly three schools com­pete in the tour­na­ment.…I'm guess­ing they sub­mit­ted Pot­ter's name un­der a fourth school, to make sure he was the on­ly one in his cat­ego­ry.…”

“You seem to have giv­en this a great deal of thought, Moody,” said Karkaroff cold­ly, “and a very in­ge­nious the­ory it is - though of course, I heard you re­cent­ly got it in­to your head that one of your birth­day presents con­tained a cun­ning­ly dis­guised basilisk egg, and smashed it to pieces be­fore re­al­iz­ing it was a car­riage clock. So you'll un­der­stand if we don't take you en­tire­ly se­ri­ous­ly.…”

“There are those who'll turn in­no­cent oc­ca­sions to their ad­van­tage,” Moody re­tort­ed in a men­ac­ing voice. "It's my job to think the way Dark wiz­ards do, Karkaroff - as you ought to re­mem­ber…

“Alas­tor!” said Dum­ble­dore warn­ing­ly. Har­ry won­dered for a mo­ment whom he was speak­ing to, but then re­al­ized “Mad-​Eye” could hard­ly be Moody's re­al first name. Moody fell silent, though still sur­vey­ing Karkaroff with sat­is­fac­tion - Karkaroff's face was burn­ing.

“How this sit­ua­tion arose, we do not know,” said Dum­ble­dore, speak­ing to ev­ery­one gath­ered in the room. “It seems to me, how­ev­er, that we have no choice but to ac­cept it. Both Cedric and Har­ry have been cho­sen to com­pete in the Tour­na­ment. This, there­fore, they will do.…”

“Ah, but Dumb­ly-​dorr -”

“My dear Madame Maxime, if you have an al­ter­na­tive, I would be de­light­ed to hear it.”

Dum­ble­dore wait­ed, but Madame Maxime did not speak, she mere­ly glared. She wasn't the on­ly one ei­ther. Snape looked fu­ri­ous; Karkaroff livid; Bag­man, how­ev­er, looked rather ex­cit­ed.

“Well, shall we crack on, then?” he said, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er and smil­ing around the room. “Got to give our cham­pi­ons their in­struc­tions, haven't we? Bar­ty, want to do the hon­ors?”

Mr. Crouch seemed to come out of a deep rever­ie.

“Yes,” he said, “in­struc­tions. Yes…the first task…”

He moved for­ward in­to the fire­light. Close up, Har­ry thought he looked ill. There were dark shad­ows be­neath his eyes and a thin, pa­pery look about his wrin­kled skin that had not been there at the Quid­ditch World Cup.

“The first task is de­signed to test your dar­ing,” he told Har­ry, Cedric, Fleur, and Vik­tor, "so we are not go­ing to be telling you what it is. Courage in the face of the un­known is an im­por­tant qual­ity in a wiz­ard…very im­por­tant.…

"The first task will take place on Novem­ber the twen­ty-​fourth, in front of the oth­er stu­dents and the pan­el of judges.

“The cham­pi­ons are not per­mit­ted to ask for or ac­cept help of any kind from their teach­ers to com­plete the tasks in the tour­na­ment. The cham­pi­ons will face the first chal­lenge armed on­ly with their wands. They will re­ceive in­for­ma­tion about the sec­ond task when the first is over. Ow­ing to the de­mand­ing and time-​con­sum­ing na­ture of the tour­na­ment, the cham­pi­ons are ex­empt­ed from end-​of-​year tests.”

Mr. Crouch turned to look at Dum­ble­dore.

“I think that's all, is it, Al­bus?”

“I think so,” said Dum­ble­dore, who was look­ing at Mr. Crouch with mild con­cern. “Are you sure you wouldn't like to stay at Hog­warts tonight, Bar­ty?”

“No, Dum­ble­dore, I must get back to the Min­istry,” said Mr. Crouch. “It is a very busy, very dif­fi­cult time at the mo­ment.…I've left young Weath­er­by in charge.…Very en­thu­si­as­tic…a lit­tle ov­er­en­thu­si­as­tic, if truth be told…”

“You'll come and have a drink be­fore you go, at least?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Come on, Bar­ry, I'm stay­ing!” said Bag­man bright­ly. “It's all hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts now, you know, much more ex­cit­ing here than at the of­fice!”

“I think not, Lu­do,” said Crouch with a touch of his old im­pa­tience.

“Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff - Madame Maxime - a night­cap?” said Dum­ble­dore.

But Madame Maxime had al­ready put her arm around Fleur's shoul­ders and was lead­ing her swift­ly out of the room. Har­ry could hear them both talk­ing very fast in French as they went off in­to the Great Hall. Karkaroff beck­oned to Krum, and they, too, ex­it­ed, though in si­lence.

“Har­ry, Cedric, I sug­gest you go up to bed,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing at both of them. “I am sure Gryffind­or and Huf­flepuff are wait­ing to cel­ebrate with you, and it would be a shame to de­prive them of this ex­cel­lent ex­cuse to make a great deal of mess and noise.”

Har­ry glanced at Cedric, who nod­ded, and they left to­geth­er.

The Great Hall was de­sert­ed now; the can­dles had burned low, giv­ing the jagged smiles of the pump­kins an eerie, flick­er­ing qual­ity.

“So,” said Cedric, with a slight smile. “We're play­ing against each oth­er again!”

“I s'pose,” said Har­ry. He re­al­ly couldn't think of any­thing to say. The in­side of his head seemed to be in com­plete dis­ar­ray, as though his brain had been ran­sacked.

“So…tell me…” said Cedric as they reached the en­trance hall, which was now lit on­ly by torch­es in the ab­sence of the Gob­let of Fire. “How did you get your name in?”

“I didn't,” said Har­ry, star­ing up at him. “I didn't put it in. I was telling the truth.”

“Ah…okay,” said Cedric. Har­ry could tell Cedric didn't be­lieve him. “Well…see you, then.”

In­stead of go­ing up the mar­ble stair­case, Cedric head­ed for a door to its right. Har­ry stood lis­ten­ing to him go­ing down the stone steps be­yond it, then, slow­ly, he start­ed to climb the mar­ble ones.

Was any­one ex­cept Ron and Hermione go­ing to be­lieve him, or would they all think he'd put him­self in for the tour­na­ment? Yet how could any­one think that, when he was fac­ing com­peti­tors who'd had three years' more mag­ical ed­uca­tion than he had - when he was now fac­ing tasks that not on­ly sound­ed very dan­ger­ous, but which were to be per­formed in front of hun­dreds of peo­ple? Yes, he'd thought about it…he'd fan­ta­sized about it…but it had been a joke, re­al­ly, an idle sort of dream…he'd nev­er re­al­ly, se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­ered en­ter­ing.…

But some­one else had con­sid­ered it…some­one else had want­ed him in the tour­na­ment, and had made sure he was en­tered. Why? To give him a treat? He didn't think so, some­how…

To see him make a fool of him­self? Well, they were like­ly to get their wish.…

But to get him killed?

Was Moody just be­ing his usu­al para­noid self? Couldn't some­one have put Har­ry's name in the gob­let as a trick, a prac­ti­cal joke? Did any­one re­al­ly want him dead?

Har­ry was able to an­swer that at once. Yes, some­one want­ed him dead, some­one had want­ed him dead ev­er since he had been a year old…Lord Volde­mort. But how could Volde­mort have en­sured that Har­ry's name got in­to the Gob­let of Fire? Volde­mort was sup­posed to be far away, in some dis­tant coun­try, in hid­ing, alone…fee­ble and pow­er­less.…

Yet in that dream he had had, just be­fore he had awo­ken with his scar hurt­ing, Volde­mort had not been alone…he had been talk­ing to Worm­tail…plot­ting Har­ry's mur­der.…

Har­ry got a shock to find him­self fac­ing the Fat La­dy al­ready. He had bare­ly no­ticed where his feet were car­ry­ing him. It was al­so a sur­prise to see that she was not alone in her frame. The wiz­ened witch who had flit­ted in­to her neigh­bor's paint­ing when he had joined the cham­pi­ons down­stairs was now sit­ting smug­ly be­side the Fat La­dy. She must have dashed through ev­ery pic­ture lin­ing sev­en stair­cas­es to reach here be­fore him. Both she and the Fat La­dy were look­ing down at him with the keen­est in­ter­est.

“Well, well, well,” said the Fat La­dy, “Vi­olet's just told me ev­ery­thing. Who's just been cho­sen as school cham­pi­on, then?”

“Balder­dash,” said Har­ry dul­ly.

“It most cer­tain­ly isn't!” said the pale witch in­dig­nant­ly.

“No, no, Vi, it's the pass­word,” said the Fat La­dy sooth­ing­ly, and she swung for­ward on her hinges to let Har­ry in­to the com­mon room.

The blast of noise that met Har­ry's ears when the por­trait opened al­most knocked him back­ward. Next thing he knew, he was be­ing wrenched in­side the com­mon room by about a dozen pairs of hands, and was fac­ing the whole of Gryffind­or House, all of whom were scream­ing, ap­plaud­ing, and whistling.

“You should've told us you'd en­tered!” bel­lowed Fred; he looked half an­noyed, half deeply im­pressed.

“How did you do it with­out get­ting a beard? Bril­liant!” roared George.

“I didn't,” Har­ry said. “I don't know how -”

But An­geli­na had now swooped down up­on him; “Oh if it couldn't be me, at least it's a Gryffind­or -”

“You'll be able to pay back Dig­gory for that last Quid­ditch match, Har­ry!” shrieked Katie Bell, an­oth­er of the Gryffind­or Chasers.

“We've got food, Har­ry, come and have some -”

“I'm not hun­gry, I had enough at the feast -”

But no­body want­ed to hear that he wasn't hun­gry; no­body want­ed to hear that he hadn't put his name in the gob­let; not one sin­gle per­son seemed to have no­ticed that he wasn't at all in the mood to cel­ebrate.…Lee Jor­dan had un­earthed a Gryffind­or ban­ner from some­where, and he in­sist­ed on drap­ing it around Har­ry like a cloak. Har­ry couldn't get away; when­ev­er he tried to si­dle over to the stair­case up to the dor­mi­to­ries, the crowd around him closed ranks, forc­ing an­oth­er but­ter­beer on him, stuff­ing crisps and peanuts in­to his hands.…Ev­ery­one want­ed to know how he had done it, how he had tricked Dum­ble­dore's Age Line and man­aged to get his name in­to the gob­let.…

“I didn't,” he said, over and over again, “I don't know how it hap­pened.”

But for all the no­tice any­one took, he might just as well not have an­swered at all.

“I'm tired!” he bel­lowed fi­nal­ly, af­ter near­ly half an hour. “No, se­ri­ous­ly, George - I'm go­ing to bed -”

He want­ed more than any­thing to find Ron and Hermione, to find a bit of san­ity, but nei­ther of them seemed to be in the com­mon room. In­sist­ing that he need­ed to sleep, and al­most flat­ten­ing the lit­tle Creevey broth­ers as they at­tempt­ed to way­lay him at the foot of the stairs, Har­ry man­aged to shake ev­ery­one off and climb up to the dor­mi­to­ry as fast as he could.

To his great re­lief, he found Ron was ly­ing on his bed in the oth­er­wise emp­ty dor­mi­to­ry, still ful­ly dressed. He looked up when Har­ry slammed the door be­hind him.

“Where've you been?” Har­ry said.

“Oh hel­lo,” said Ron.

He was grin­ning, but it was a very odd, strained sort of grin. Har­ry sud­den­ly be­came aware that he was still wear­ing the scar­let Gryffind­or ban­ner that Lee had tied around him. He has­tened to take it off, but it was knot­ted very tight­ly. Ron lay on the bed with­out mov­ing, watch­ing Har­ry strug­gle to re­move it.

“So,” he said, when Har­ry had fi­nal­ly re­moved the ban­ner and thrown it in­to a cor­ner. “Con­grat­ula­tions.”

“What d'you mean, con­grat­ula­tions?” said Har­ry, star­ing at Ron. There was def­inite­ly some­thing wrong with the way Ron was smil­ing: It was more like a gri­mace.

“Well…no one else got across the Age Line,” said Ron. “Not even Fred and George. What did you use - the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak?”

“The In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak wouldn't have got me over that line,” said Har­ry slow­ly.

“Oh right,” said Ron. “I thought you might've told me if it was the cloak…be­cause it would've cov­ered both of us, wouldn't it? But you found an­oth­er way, did you?”

“Lis­ten,” said Har­ry, “I didn't put my name in that gob­let. Some­one else must've done it.”

Ron raised his eye­brows.

“What would they do that for?”

“I dun­no,” said Har­ry. He felt it would sound very melo­dra­mat­ic to say, “To kill me.”

Ron's eye­brows rose so high that they were in dan­ger of dis­ap­pear­ing in­to his hair.

“It's okay, you know, you can tell me the truth,” he said. “If you don't want ev­ery­one else to know, fine, but I don't know why you're both­er­ing to lie, you didn't get in­to trou­ble for it, did you? That friend of the Fat La­dy's, that Vi­olet, she's al­ready told us all Dum­ble­dore's let­ting you en­ter. A thou­sand Galleons prize mon­ey, eh? And you don't have to do end-​of-​year tests ei­ther.…”

“I didn't put my name in that gob­let!” said Har­ry, start­ing to feel an­gry.

“Yeah, okay,” said Ron, in ex­act­ly the same scep­ti­cal tone as Cedric. “On­ly you said this morn­ing you'd have done it last night, and no one would've seen you.…I'm not stupid, you know.”

“You're do­ing a re­al­ly good im­pres­sion of it,” Har­ry snapped.

“Yeah?” said Ron, and there was no trace of a grin, forced or oth­er­wise, on his face now. “You want to get to bed, Har­ry. I ex­pect you'll need to be up ear­ly to­mor­row for a pho­to-​call or some­thing.”

He wrenched the hang­ings shut around his four-​poster, leav­ing Har­ry stand­ing there by the door, star­ing at the dark red vel­vet cur­tains, now hid­ing one of the few peo­ple he had been sure would be­lieve him.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER EIGHTEEN


THE WEIGH­ING OF THE WANDS



W hen Har­ry woke up on Sun­day morn­ing, it took him a mo­ment to re­mem­ber why he felt so mis­er­able and wor­ried. Then the mem­ory of the pre­vi­ous night rolled over him. He sat up and ripped back the cur­tains of his own four-​poster, in­tend­ing to talk to Ron, to force Ron to be­lieve him - on­ly to find that Ron's bed was emp­ty; he had ob­vi­ous­ly gone down to break­fast.

Har­ry dressed and went down the spi­ral stair­case in­to the com­mon room. The mo­ment he ap­peared, the peo­ple who had al­ready fin­ished break­fast broke in­to ap­plause again. The prospect of go­ing down in­to the Great Hall and fac­ing the rest of the Gryffind­ors, all treat­ing him like some sort of hero, was not invit­ing; it was that, how­ev­er, or stay here and al­low him­self to be cor­nered by the Creevey broth­ers, who were both beck­on­ing fran­ti­cal­ly to him to join them. He walked res­olute­ly over to the por­trait hole, pushed it open, climbed out of it, and found him­self face-​to-​face with Hermione.

“Hel­lo,” she said, hold­ing up a stack of toast, which she was car­ry­ing in a nap­kin. “I brought you this.…Want to go for a walk?”

“Good idea,” said Har­ry grate­ful­ly.

They went down­stairs, crossed the en­trance hall quick­ly with­out look­ing in at the Great Hall, and were soon strid­ing across the lawn to­ward the lake, where the Durm­strang ship was moored, re­flect­ed black­ly in the wa­ter. It was a chilly morn­ing, and they kept mov­ing, munch­ing their toast, as Har­ry told Hermione ex­act­ly what had hap­pened af­ter he had left the Gryffind­or ta­ble the night be­fore. To his im­mense re­lief, Hermione ac­cept­ed his sto­ry with­out ques­tion.

“Well, of course I knew you hadn't en­tered your­self,” she said when he'd fin­ished telling her about the scene in the cham­ber off the Hall. “The look on your face when Dum­ble­dore read out your name! But the ques­tion is, who did put it in? Be­cause Moody's right, Har­ry…I don't think any stu­dent could have done it…they'd nev­er be able to fool the Gob­let, or get over Dum­ble­dore's -”

“Have you seen Ron?” Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed.

Hermione hes­itat­ed.

“Erm…yes…he was at break­fast,” she said.

“Does he still think I en­tered my­self?”

“Well…no, I don't think so…not re­al­ly,” said Hermione awk­ward­ly.

“What's that sup­posed to mean, 'not re­al­ly'?”

“Oh Har­ry, isn't it ob­vi­ous?” Hermione said de­spair­ing­ly. “He's jeal­ous!”

“Jeal­ous?” Har­ry said in­cred­ulous­ly. “Jeal­ous of what? He wants to make a prat of him­self in front of the whole school, does he?”

“Look,” said Hermione pa­tient­ly, “it's al­ways you who gets all the at­ten­tion, you know it is. I know it's not your fault,” she added quick­ly, see­ing Har­ry open his mouth fu­ri­ous­ly. “I know you don't ask for it…but - well - you know, Ron's got all those broth­ers to com­pete against at home, and you're his best friend, and you're re­al­ly fa­mous - he's al­ways shunt­ed to one side when­ev­er peo­ple see you, and he puts up with it, and he nev­er men­tions it, but I sup­pose this is just one time too many…”

“Great,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. “Re­al­ly great. Tell him from me I'll swap any time he wants. Tell him from me he's wel­come to it.…Peo­ple gaw­ping at my fore­head ev­ery­where I go…”

“I'm not teil­ing him any­thing,” Hermione said short­ly. “Tell him your­self. It's the on­ly way to sort this out.”

“I'm not run­ning around af­ter him try­ing to make him grow up!” Har­ry said, so loud­ly that sev­er­al owls in a near­by tree took flight in alarm. “Maybe he'll be­lieve I'm not en­joy­ing my­self once I've got my neck bro­ken or -”

“That's not fun­ny,” said Hermione qui­et­ly. “That's not fun­ny at all.” She looked ex­treme­ly anx­ious. “Har­ry, I've been think­ing - you know what we've got to do, don't you? Straight away, the mo­ment we get back to the cas­tle?”

“Yeah, give Ron a good kick up the -”

“Write to Sir­ius. You've got to tell him what's hap­pened. He asked you to keep him post­ed on ev­ery­thing that's go­ing on at Hog­warts.…It's al­most as if he ex­pect­ed some­thing like this to hap­pen. I brought some parch­ment and a quill out with me -”

“Come off it,” said Har­ry, look­ing around to check that they couldn't be over­heard, but the grounds were quite de­sert­ed. “He came back to the coun­try just be­cause my scar twinged. He'll prob­ably come burst­ing right in­to the cas­tle if I tell him some­one's en­tered me in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment -”

“He'd want you to tell him,” said Hermione stern­ly. “He's go­ing to find out any­way.”

“How?”

“Har­ry, this isn't go­ing to be kept qui­et,” said Hermione, very se­ri­ous­ly. “This tour­na­ment's fa­mous, and you're fa­mous. I'll be re­al­ly sur­prised if there isn't any­thing in the Dai­ly Prophet about you com­pet­ing.…You're al­ready in half the books about You-​Know-​Who, you know…and Sir­ius would rather hear it from you, I know he would.”

“Okay, okay, I'll write to him,” said Har­ry, throw­ing his last piece of toast in­to the lake. They both stood and watched it float­ing there for a mo­ment, be­fore a large ten­ta­cle rose out of the wa­ter and scooped it be­neath the sur­face. Then they re­turned to the cas­tle.

“Whose owl am I go­ing to use?” Har­ry said as they climbed the stairs. “He told me not to use Hed­wig again.”

“Ask Ron if you can bor­row -”

“I'm not ask­ing Ron for any­thing,” Har­ry said flat­ly.

“Well, bor­row one of the school owls, then, any­one can use them,” said Hermione.

They went up to the Owlery. Hermione gave Har­ry a piece of parch­ment, a quill, and a bot­tle of ink, then strolled around the long lines of perch­es, look­ing at all the dif­fer­ent owls, while Har­ry sat down against a wall and wrote his let­ter.



Dear Sir­ius,

You told me to keep you post­ed on what's hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts, so here goes - I don't know if you've heard, but the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment's hap­pen­ing this year and on Sat­ur­day night I got picked as a fourth cham­pi­on. I don't who put my name in the Gob­let of Fire, be­cause I didn't. The oth­er Hog­warts cham­pi­on is Cedric Dig­gory, from Huf­flepuff.



He paused at this point, think­ing. He had an urge to say some­thing about the large weight of anx­iety that seemed to have set­tled in­side his chest since last night, but he couldn't think how to trans­late this in­to words, so he sim­ply dipped his quill back in­to the ink bot­tle and wrote,



Hope you're okay, and Buck­beak - Har­ry



“Fin­ished,” he told Hermione, get­ting to his feet and brush­ing straw off his robes. At this, Hed­wig flut­tered down on­to his shoul­der and held out her leg.

“I can't use you,” Har­ry told her, look­ing around for the school owls. “I've got to use one of these.”

Hed­wig gave a very loud hoot and took off so sud­den­ly that her talons cut in­to his shoul­der. She kept her back to Har­ry all the time he was ty­ing his let­ter to the leg of a large barn owl. When the barn owl had flown off, Har­ry reached out to stroke Hed­wig, but she clicked her beak fu­ri­ous­ly and soared up in­to the rafters out of reach.

“First Ron, then you,” Har­ry said an­gri­ly. “This isn't my fault.”



If Har­ry had thought that mat­ters would im­prove once ev­ery­one got used to the idea of him be­ing cham­pi­on, the fol­low­ing day showed him how mis­tak­en he was. He could no longer avoid the rest of the school once he was back at lessons - and it was clear that the rest of the school, just like the Gryffind­ors, thought Har­ry had en­tered him­self for the tour­na­ment. Un­like the Gryffind­ors, how­ev­er, they did not seem im­pressed.

The Huf­flepuffs, who were usu­al­ly on ex­cel­lent terms with the Gryffind­ors, had turned re­mark­ably cold to­ward the whole lot of them. One Her­bol­ogy les­son was enough to demon­strate this. It was plain that the Huf­flepuffs felt that Har­ry had stolen their cham­pi­on's glo­ry; a feel­ing ex­ac­er­bat­ed, per­haps, by the fact that Huf­flepuff House very rarely got any glo­ry, and that Cedric was one of the few who had ev­er giv­en them any, hav­ing beat­en Gryffind­or once at Quid­ditch. Ernie Macmil­lan and Justin Finch­Fletch­ley, with whom Har­ry nor­mal­ly got on very well, did not talk to him even though they were re­pot­ting Bounc­ing Bulbs at the same tray - though they did laugh rather un­pleas­ant­ly when one of the Bounc­ing Bulbs wrig­gled free from Har­ry's grip and smacked him hard in the face. Ron wasn't talk­ing to Har­ry ei­ther. Hermione sat be­tween them, mak­ing very forced con­ver­sa­tion, but though both an­swered her nor­mal­ly, they avoid­ed mak­ing eye con­tact with each oth­er. Har­ry thought even Pro­fes­sor Sprout seemed dis­tant with him - but then, she was Head of Huf­flepuff House.

He would have been look­ing for­ward to see­ing Ha­grid un­der nor­mal cir­cum­stances, but Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures meant see­ing the Slytherins too - the first time he would come face-​to-​face with them since be­com­ing cham­pi­on.

Pre­dictably, Mal­foy ar­rived at Ha­grid's cab­in with his fa­mil­iar sneer firm­ly in place.

“Ah, look, boys, it's the cham­pi­on,” he said to Crabbe and Goyle the mo­ment he got with­in earshot of Har­ry. “Got your au­to­graph books? Bet­ter get a sig­na­ture now, be­cause I doubt he's go­ing to be around much longer.…Half the Tri­wiz­ard cham­pi­ons have died…how long d'you reck­on you're go­ing to last, Pot­ter? Ten min­utes in­to the first task's my bet.”

Crabbe and Goyle guf­fawed syco­phan­ti­cal­ly, but Mal­foy had to stop there, be­cause Ha­grid emerged from the back of his cab­in bal­anc­ing a tee­ter­ing tow­er of crates, each con­tain­ing a very large Blast-​End­ed Skrewt. To the class's hor­ror, Ha­grid pro­ceed­ed to ex­plain that the rea­son the skrewts had been killing one an­oth­er was an ex­cess of pent-​up en­er­gy, and that the so­lu­tion would be for each stu­dent to fix a leash on a skrewt and take it for a short walk. The on­ly good thing about this plan was that it dis­tract­ed Mal­foy com­plete­ly.

“Take this thing for a walk?” he re­peat­ed in dis­gust, star­ing in­to one of the box­es. “And where ex­act­ly are we sup­posed to fix the leash? Around the sting, the blast­ing end, or the suck­er?”

“Roun' the mid­dle,” said Ha­grid, demon­strat­ing. “Er - yeh might want ter put on yer drag­on-​hide gloves, jus' as an ex­tra pre­cau­tion, like. Har­ry - you come here an' help me with this big one.…”

Ha­grid's re­al in­ten­tion, how­ev­er, was totalk to Har­ry away from the rest of the class. He wait­ed un­til ev­ery­one else had set off with their skrewts, then turned to Har­ry and said, very se­ri­ous­ly, “So - yer com­petin', Har­ry. In the tour­na­ment. School cham­pi­on.”

“One of the cham­pi­ons,” Har­ry cor­rect­ed him.

Ha­grid's bee­tle-​black eyes looked very anx­ious un­der his wild eye­brows.

“No idea who put yeh in fer it, Har­ry?”

“You be­lieve I didn't do it, then?” said Har­ry, con­ceal­ing with dif­fi­cul­ty the rush of grat­itude he felt at Ha­grid's words.

“Course I do,” Ha­grid grunt­ed. “Yeh say it wasn' you, an' I be­lieve yeh - an' Dum­ble­dore be­lieves yer, an' all.”

“Wish I knew who did do it,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

The pair of them looked out over the lawn; the class was wide­ly scat­tered now, and all in great dif­fi­cul­ty. The skrewts were now over three feet long, and ex­treme­ly pow­er­ful. No longer shell-​less and col­or­less, they had de­vel­oped a kind of thick, gray­ish, shiny ar­mor. They looked like a cross be­tween gi­ant scor­pi­ons and elon­gat­ed crabs- but still with­out rec­og­niz­able heads or eyes. They had be­come im­mense­ly strong and very hard to con­trol.

“Look like they're havin' fun, don' they?” Ha­grid said hap­pi­ly. Har­ry as­sumed he was talk­ing about the skrewts, be­cause his class­mates cer­tain­ly weren't; ev­ery now and then, with an alarm­ing bang, one of the skrewts' ends would ex­plode, caus­ing it to shoot for­ward sev­er­al yards, and more than one per­son was be­ing dragged along on their stom­ach, try­ing des­per­ate­ly to get back on their feet.

“Ah, I don' know, Har­ry,” Ha­grid sighed sud­den­ly, look­ing back down at him with a wor­ried ex­pres­sion on his face. “School cham­pi­on…ev­ery­thin' seems ter hap­pen ter you, doesn' it?”

Har­ry didn't an­swer. Yes, ev­ery­thing did seem to hap­pen to him…that was more or less what Hermione had said as they had walked around the lake, and that was the rea­son, ac­cord­ing to her, that Ron was no longer talk­ing to him.



The next few days were some of Har­ry's worst at Hog­warts. The clos­est he had ev­er come to feel­ing like this had been dur­ing those months, in his sec­ond year, when a large part of the school had sus­pect­ed him of at­tack­ing his fel­low stu­dents. But Ron had been on his side then. He thought he could have coped with the rest of the school's be­hav­ior if he could just have had Ron back as a friend, but he wasn't go­ing to try and per­suade Ron to talk to him if Ron didn't want to. Nev­er­the­less, it was lone­ly with dis­like pour­ing in on him from all sides.

He could un­der­stand the Huf­flepuffs' at­ti­tude, even if he didn't like it; they had their own cham­pi­on to sup­port. He ex­pect­ed noth­ing less than vi­cious in­sults from the Slytherins - he was high­ly un­pop­ular there and al­ways had been, be­cause he had helped Gryffind­or beat them so of­ten, both at Quid­ditch and in the In­ter-​House Cham­pi­onship. But he had hoped the Raven­claws might have found it in their hearts to sup­port him as much as Cedric. He was wrong, how­ev­er. Most Raven­claws seemed to think that he had been des­per­ate to earn him­self a bit more fame by trick­ing the gob­let in­to ac­cept­ing his name.

Then there was the fact that Cedric looked the part of a cham­pi­on so much more than he did. Ex­cep­tion­al­ly hand­some, with his straight nose, dark hair, and gray eyes, it was hard to say who was re­ceiv­ing more ad­mi­ra­tion these days, Cedric or Vik­tor Krum. Har­ry ac­tu­al­ly saw the same sixth-​year girls who had been so keen to get Krum's au­to­graph beg­ging Cedric to sign their school bags one lunchtime.

Mean­while there was no re­ply from Sir­ius, Hed­wig was re­fus­ing to come any­where near him, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was pre­dict­ing his death with even more cer­tain­ty than usu­al, and he did so bad­ly at Sum­mon­ing Charms in Pro­fes­sor Flitwick's class that he was giv­en ex­tra home­work - the on­ly per­son to get any, apart from Neville.

“It's re­al­ly not that dif­fi­cult, Har­ry,” Hermione tried to re­as­sure him as they left Flitwick's class - she had been mak­ing ob­jects zoom across the room to her all les­son, as though she were some sort of weird mag­net for board dusters, wastepa­per bas­kets, and lu­nascopes. “You just weren't con­cen­trat­ing prop­er­ly -”

“Won­der why that was,” said Har­ry dark­ly as Cedric Dig­gory walked past, sur­round­ed by a large group of sim­per­ing girls, all of whom looked at Har­ry as though he were a par­tic­ular­ly large Blast-​End­ed Skrewt. “Still - nev­er mind, eh? Dou­ble Po­tions to look for­ward to this af­ter­noon…”

Dou­ble Po­tions was al­ways a hor­ri­ble ex­pe­ri­ence, but these days it was noth­ing short of tor­ture. Be­ing shut in a dun­geon for an hour and a half with Snape and the Slytherins, all of whom seemed de­ter­mined to pun­ish Har­ry as much as pos­si­ble for dar­ing to be­come school cham­pi­on, was about the most un­pleas­ant thing Har­ry could imag­ine. He had al­ready strug­gled through one Fri­day's worth, with Hermione sit­ting next to him in­ton­ing “ig­nore them, ig­nore them, ig­nore them” un­der her breath, and he couldn't see why to­day should be any bet­ter.

When he and Hermione ar­rived at Snape's dun­geon af­ter lunch, they found the Slytherins wait­ing out­side, each and ev­ery one of them wear­ing a large badge on the front of his or her robes. For one wild mo­ment Har­ry thought they were S.P.E.W. badges - then he saw that they all bore the same mes­sage, in lu­mi­nous red let­ters that burnt bright­ly in the dim­ly lit un­der­ground pas­sage:



SUP­PORT CEDRIC DIG­GORY-

THE RE­AL HOG­WARTS CHAM­PI­ON!



“Like them, Pot­ter?” said Mal­foy loud­ly as Har­ry ap­proached. “And this isn't all they do - look!”

He pressed his badge in­to his chest, and the mes­sage up­on it van­ished, to be re­placed by an­oth­er one, which glowed green:



POT­TER STINKS!

The Slytherins howled with laugh­ter. Each of them pressed their badges too, un­til the mes­sage POT­TER STINKS was shin­ing bright­ly all around Har­ry. He felt the heat rise in his face and neck.

“Oh very fun­ny,” Hermione said sar­cas­ti­cal­ly to Pan­sy Parkin­son and her gang of Slytherin girls, who were laugh­ing hard­er than any­one, “re­al­ly wit­ty.”

Ron was stand­ing against the wall with Dean and Sea­mus. He wasn't laugh­ing, but he wasn't stick­ing up for Har­ry ei­ther.

“Want one, Granger?” said Mal­foy, hold­ing out a badge to Hermione. “I've got loads. But don't touch my hand, now. I've just washed it, you see; don't want a Mud­blood slim­ing it up.”

Some of the anger Har­ry had been feel­ing for days and days seemed to burst through a dam in his chest. He had reached for his wand be­fore he'd thought what he was do­ing. Peo­ple all around them scram­bled out of the way, back­ing down the cor­ri­dor.

“Har­ry!” Hermione said warn­ing­ly.

“Go on, then, Pot­ter,” Mal­foy said qui­et­ly, draw­ing out his own wand. “Moody's not here to look af­ter you now - do it, if you've got the guts -”

For a split sec­ond, they looked in­to each oth­er's eyes, then, at ex­act­ly the same time, both act­ed.

“Fun­nun­cu­lus!” Har­ry yelled.

“Den­saugeo!” screamed Mal­foy.

Jets of light shot from both wands, hit each oth­er in midair, and ric­ocheted off at an­gles - Har­ry's hit Goyle in the face, and Mal­foy's hit Hermione. Goyle bel­lowed and put his hands to his nose, where great ug­ly boils were spring­ing up - Hermione, whim­per­ing in pan­ic, was clutch­ing her mouth.

“Hermione!”

Ron had hur­ried for­ward to see what was wrong with her; Har­ry turned and saw Ron drag­ging Hermione's hand away from her face. It wasn't a pret­ty sight. Hermione's front teeth - al­ready larg­er than av­er­age - were now grow­ing at an alarm­ing rate; she was look­ing more and more like a beaver as her teeth elon­gat­ed, past her bot­tom lip, to­ward her chin - pan­ic-​strick­en, she felt them and let out a ter­ri­fied cry.

“And what is all this noise about?” said a soft, dead­ly voice.

Snape had ar­rived. The Slytherins clam­ored to give their ex­pla­na­tions; Snape point­ed a long yel­low fin­ger at Mal­foy and said, “Ex­plain.”

“Pot­ter at­tacked me, sir -”

“We at­tacked each oth­er at the same time!” Har­ry shout­ed.

“- and he hit Goyle - look -”

Snape ex­am­ined Goyle, whose face now re­sem­bled some­thing that would have been at home in a book on poi­sonous fun­gi.

“Hos­pi­tal wing, Goyle,” Snape said calm­ly.

“Mal­foy got Hermione!” Ron said. “Look!”

He forced Hermione to show Snape her teeth - she was do­ing her best to hide them with her hands, though this was dif­fi­cult as they had now grown down past her col­lar. Pan­sy Parkin­son and the oth­er Slytherin girls were dou­bled up with silent gig­gles, point­ing at Hermione from be­hind Snape's back.

Snape looked cold­ly at Hermione, then said, “I see no dif­fer­ence.”

Hermione let out a whim­per; her eyes filled with tears, she turned on her heel and ran, ran all the way up the cor­ri­dor and out of sight.

It was lucky, per­haps, that both Har­ry and Ron start­ed shout­ing at Snape at the same time; lucky their voic­es echoed so much in the stone cor­ri­dor, for in the con­fused din, it was im­pos­si­ble for him to hear ex­act­ly what they were call­ing him. He got the gist, how­ev­er.

“Let's see,” he said, in his silki­est voice. “Fifty points from Gryffind­or and a de­ten­tion each for Pot­ter and Weasley. Now get in­side, or it'll be a week's worth of de­ten­tions.”

Har­ry's ears were ring­ing. The in­jus­tice of it made him want to curse Snape in­to a thou­sand slimy pieces. He passed Snape, walked with Ron to the back of the dun­geon, and slammed his bag down on­to the ta­ble. Ron was shak­ing with anger too - for a mo­ment, it felt as though ev­ery­thing was back to nor­mal be­tween them, but then Ron turned and sat down with Dean and Sea­mus in­stead, leav­ing Har­ry alone at his ta­ble. On the oth­er side of the dun­geon, Mal­foy turned his back on Snape and pressed his badge, smirk­ing. POT­TER STINKS flashed once more across the room.

Har­ry sat there star­ing at Snape as the les­son be­gan, pic­tur­ing hor­rif­ic things hap­pen­ing to him.…If on­ly he knew how to do the Cru­cia­tus Curse…he'd have Snape flat on his back like that spi­der, jerk­ing and twitch­ing.…

“An­ti­dotes!” said Snape, look­ing around at them all, his cold black eyes glit­ter­ing un­pleas­ant­ly. “You should all have pre­pared your recipes now. I want you to brew them care­ful­ly, and then, we will be se­lect­ing some­one on whom to test one…”

Snape's eyes met Har­ry's, and Har­ry knew what was com­ing. Snape was go­ing to poi­son him. Har­ry imag­ined pick­ing up his caul­dron, and sprint­ing to the front of the class, and bring­ing it down on Snape's greasy head - And then a knock on the dun­geon door burst in on Har­ry's thoughts.

It was Col­in Creevey; he edged in­to the room, beam­ing at Har­ry, and walked up to Snape's desk at the front of the room.

“Yes?” said Snape curt­ly.

“Please, sir, I'm sup­posed to take Har­ry Pot­ter up­stairs.” Snape stared down his hooked nose at Col­in, whose smile fad­ed from his ea­ger face.

“Pot­ter has an­oth­er hour of Po­tions to com­plete,” said Snape cold­ly. “He will come up­stairs when this class is fin­ished.”

Col­in went pink.

“Sir - sir, Mr. Bag­man wants him,” he said ner­vous­ly. “All the cham­pi­ons have got to go, I think they want to take pho­tographs…”

Har­ry would have giv­en any­thing he owned to have stopped Col­in say­ing those last few words. He chanced half a glance at Ron, but Ron was star­ing de­ter­mined­ly at the ceil­ing.

“Very well, very well,” Snape snapped. “Pot­ter, leave your things here, I want you back down here lat­er to test your an­ti­dote.”

“Please, sir - he's got to take his things with him,” squeaked Cohn. “All the cham­pi­ons…”

“Very well!” said Snape. “Pot­ter - take your bag and get out of my sight!”

Har­ry swung his bag over his shoul­der, got up, and head­ed for the door. As he walked through the Slytherin desks, POT­TER STINKS flashed at him from ev­ery di­rec­tion.

“It's amaz­ing, isn't it, Har­ry?” said Col­in, start­ing to speak the mo­ment Har­ry had closed the dun­geon door be­hind him. “Isn't it, though? You be­ing cham­pi­on?”

“Yeah, re­al­ly amaz­ing,” said Har­ry heav­ily as they set off to­ward the steps in­to the en­trance hall. “What do they want pho­tos for, Col­in?”

“The Dai­ly Prophet, I think!”

“Great,” said Har­ry dul­ly. “Ex­act­ly what I need. More pub­lic­ity.”

“Good luck!” said Col­in when they had reached the right room. Har­ry knocked on the door and en­tered.

He was in a fair­ly small class­room; most of the desks had been pushed away to the back of the room, leav­ing a large space in the mid­dle; three of them, how­ev­er, had been placed end-​to-​end in front of the black­board and cov­ered with a long length of vel­vet. Five chairs had been set be­hind the vel­vet-​cov­ered desks, and Lu­do Bag­man was sit­ting in one of them, talk­ing to a witch Har­ry had nev­er seen be­fore, who was wear­ing ma­gen­ta robes.

Vik­tor Krum was stand­ing mood­ily in a cor­ner as usu­al and not talk­ing to any­body. Cedric and Fheur were in con­ver­sa­tion. Fheur looked a good deal hap­pi­er than Har­ry had seen her so far; she kept throw­ing back her head so that her long sil­very hair caught the light. A paunchy man, hold­ing a large black cam­era that was smok­ing slight­ly, was watch­ing Fleur out of the cor­ner of his eye.

Bag­man sud­den­ly spot­ted Har­ry, got up quick­ly, and bound­ed for­ward.

“Ah, here he is! Cham­pi­on num­ber four! In you come, Har­ry, in you come…noth­ing to wor­ry about, it's just the wand weigh­ing cer­emo­ny, the rest of the judges will be here in a mo­ment -”

“Wand weigh­ing?” Har­ry re­peat­ed ner­vous­ly.

“We have to check that your wands are ful­ly func­tion­al, no prob­lems, you know, as they're your most im­por­tant tools in the tasks ahead,” said Bag­man. “The ex­pert's up­stairs now with Dum­ble­dore. And then there's go­ing to be a lit­tle pho­to shoot. This is Ri­ta Skeeter,” he added, ges­tur­ing to­ward the witch in ma­gen­ta robes. “She's do­ing a small piece on the tour­na­ment for the Dai­ly Prophet.…”

“Maybe not that small, Lu­do,” said Ri­ta Skeeter, her eyes on Har­ry.

Her hair was set in elab­orate and cu­ri­ous­ly rigid curls that con­trast­ed odd­ly with her heavy-​jawed face. She wore jew­eled spec­ta­cles. The thick fin­gers clutch­ing her crocodile-​skin hand­bag end­ed in two-​inch nails, paint­ed crim­son.

“I won­der if I could have a lit­tle word with Har­ry be­fore we start?” she said to Bag­man, but still gaz­ing fixed­ly at Har­ry. “The youngest cham­pi­on, you know…to add a bit of col­or?”

“Cer­tain­ly!” cried Bag­man. “That is - if Har­ry has no ob­jec­tion?”

“Er -” said Har­ry.

“Love­ly,” said Ri­ta Skeeter, and in a sec­ond, her scar­let-​taloned fin­gers had Har­ry's up­per arm in a sur­pris­ing­ly strong grip, and she was steer­ing him out of the room again and open­ing a near­by door.

“We don't want to be in there with all that noise,” she said. “Let's see…ah, yes, this is nice and cozy.”

It was a broom cup­board. Har­ry stared at her.

“Come along, dear - that's right - love­ly,” said Ri­ta Skeeter again, perch­ing her­self pre­car­ious­ly up­on an up­turned buck­et, push­ing Har­ry down on­to a card­board box, and clos­ing the door, throw­ing them in­to dark­ness. “Let's see now…”

She un­snapped her crocodile-​skin hand­bag and pulled out a hand­ful of can­dles, which she lit with a wave of her wand and mag­icked in­to midair, so that they could see what they were do­ing.

“You won't mind, Har­ry, if I use a Quick-​Quotes Quill? It leaves me free to talk to you nor­mal­ly…”

“A what?” said Har­ry.

Ri­ta Skeeter's smile widened. Har­ry count­ed three gold teeth. She reached again in­to her crocodile bag and drew out a long acid-​green quill and a roll of parch­ment, which she stretched out be­tween them on a crate of Mrs. Skow­er's All-​Pur­pose Mag­ical Mess Re­mover. She put the tip of the green quill in­to her mouth, sucked it for a mo­ment with ap­par­ent rel­ish, then placed it up­right on the parch­ment, where it stood bal­anced on its point, quiv­er­ing slight­ly.

“Test­ing…my name is Ri­ta Skeeter, Dai­ly Prophet re­porter.”

Har­ry hooked down quick­ly at the quill. The mo­ment Ri­ta Skeeter had spo­ken, the green quill had start­ed to scrib­ble, skid­ding across the parch­ment:



At­trac­tive blonde Ri­ta Skeeter, forty-​three, who's sav­age quill has punc­tured many in­flat­ed rep­uta­tions -



“Love­ly,” said Ri­ta Skeeter, yet again, and she ripped the top piece of parch­ment off, crum­pled it up, and stuffed it in­to her hand­bag. Now she leaned to­ward Har­ry and said, “So, Har­ry…what made you de­cide to en­ter the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment?”

“Er -” said Har­ry again, but he was dis­tract­ed by the quill. Even though he wasn't speak­ing, it was dash­ing across the parch­ment, and in its wake he could make out a fresh sen­tence:



An ug­ly scar, sou­ve­nier of a trag­ic past, dis­fig­ures the oth­er­wise charm­ing face of Har­ry Pot­ter, whose eyes -



“Ig­nore the quill, Har­ry,” said Ri­ta Skeeter firm­ly. Re­luc­tant­ly Har­ry looked up at her in­stead. “Now - why did you de­cide to en­ter the tour­na­ment, Har­ry?”

“I didn't,” said Har­ry. “I don't know how my name got in­to the Gob­let of Fire. I didn't put it in there.”

Ri­ta Skeeter raised one heav­ily pen­ciled eye­brow.

“Come now, Har­ry, there's no need to be scared of get­ting in­to trou­ble. We all know you shouldn't re­al­ly have en­tered at all. But don't wor­ry about that. Our read­ers hove a rebel.”

“But I didn't en­ter,” Har­ry re­peat­ed. “I don't know who -”

“How do you feel about the tasks ahead?” said Ri­ta Skeeter. “Ex­cit­ed? Ner­vous?”

“I haven't re­al­ly thought…yeah, ner­vous, I sup­pose,” said Har­ry. His in­sides squirmed un­com­fort­ably as he spoke.

“Cham­pi­ons have died in the past, haven't they?” said Ri­ta Skeeter briskly. “Have you thought about that at all?”

“Well…they say it's go­ing to be a lot safer this year,” said Har­ry.

The quill whizzed across the parch­ment be­tween them, back and for­ward as though it were skat­ing.

“Of course, you've looked death in the face be­fore, haven't you?” said Ri­ta Skeeter, watch­ing him close­ly. “How would you say that's af­fect­ed you?”

“Er,” said Har­ry, yet again.

“Do you think that the trau­ma in your past might have made you keen to prove your­self? To live up to your name? Do you think that per­haps you were tempt­ed to en­ter the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment be­cause -”

“I didn't en­ter,” said Har­ry, start­ing to feel ir­ri­tat­ed.

“Can you re­mem­ber your par­ents at all?” said Ri­ta Skeeter, talk­ing over him.

“No,” said Har­ry.

“How do you think they'd feel if they knew you were com­pet­ing in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment? Proud? Wor­ried? An­gry?”

Har­ry was feel­ing re­al­ly an­noyed now. How on earth was he to know how his par­ents would feel if they were alive? He could feel Ri­ta Skeeter watch­ing him very in­tent­ly. Frown­ing, he avoid­ed her gaze and hooked down at words the quill had just writ­ten:



Tears fill those startling­ly green eyes as our con­ver­sa­tion turns to the par­ents he can bare­ly re­mem­ber.



“I have NOT got tears in my eyes!” said Har­ry loud­ly.

Be­fore Ri­ta Skeeter could say a word, the door of the broom cup­board was pulled open. Har­ry looked around, blink­ing in the bright light. Al­bus Dum­ble­dore stood there, look­ing down at both of them, squashed in­to the cup­board.

“Dum­ble­dore!” cried Ri­ta Skeeter, with ev­ery ap­pear­ance of de­light - but Har­ry no­ticed that her quill and the parch­ment had sud­den­ly van­ished from the box of Mag­ical Mess Re­mover, and Ri­ta's clawed fin­gers were hasti­ly snap­ping shut the clasp of her crocodile-​skin bag. “How are you?” she said, stand­ing up and hold­ing out one of her large, man­nish hands to Dum­ble­dore. “I hope you saw my piece over the sum­mer about the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards' Con­fer­ence?”

“En­chant­ing­ly nasty,” said Dum­ble­dore, his eyes twin­kling. “I par­tic­ular­ly en­joyed your de­scrip­tion of me as an ob­so­lete ding­bat.”

Ri­ta Skeeter didn't look re­mote­ly abashed.

“I was just mak­ing the point that some of your ideas are a lit­tle old-​fash­ioned, Dumb­he­do­re, and that many wiz­ards in the street -”

“I will be de­light­ed to hear the rea­son­ing be­hind the rude­ness, Ri­ta,” said Dum­ble­dore, with a cour­te­ous bow and a smile, “but I'm afraid we will have to dis­cuss the mat­ter lat­er. The Weigh­ing of the Wands is about to start, and it can­not take place if one of our cham­pi­ons is hid­den in a broom cup­board.”

Very glad to get away from Ri­ta Skeeter, Har­ry hur­ried back in­to the room. The oth­er cham­pi­ons were now sit­ting in chairs near the door, and he sat down quick­ly next to Cedric, hook­ing up at the vel­vet-​cov­ered ta­ble, where four of the five judges were now sit­ting - Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff, Madame Maxime, Mr. Crouch, and Lu­do Bag­man. Ri­ta Skeeter set­tled her­self down in a cor­ner; Har­ry saw her slip the parch­ment out of her bag again, spread it on her knee, suck the end of the Quick-​Quotes Quill, and place it once more on the parch­ment.

“May I in­tro­duce Mr. Ol­li­van­der?” said Dum­ble­dore, tak­ing his place at the judges' ta­ble and talk­ing to the cham­pi­ons. “He will be check­ing your wands to en­sure that they are in good con­di­tion be­fore the tour­na­ment.”

Har­ry hooked around, and with a jolt of sur­prise saw an old wiz­ard with large, pale eyes stand­ing qui­et­ly by the win­dow. Har­ry had met Mr. Ol­li­van­der be­fore - he was the wand-​mak­er from whom Har­ry had bought his own wand over three years ago in Di­agon Al­ley.

“Made­moi­selle Dela­cour, could we have you first, please?” said Mr. Ol­li­van­der, step­ping in­to the emp­ty space in the mid­dle of the room.

Fleur Dela­cour swept over to Mr. Ol­hivan­der and hand­ed him her wand.

“Hmm…” he said.

He twirled the wand be­tween his long fin­gers like a ba­ton and it emit­ted a num­ber of pink and gold sparks. Then he held it chose to his eyes and ex­am­ined it care­ful­ly.

“Yes,” he said qui­et­ly, “nine and a half inch­es…in­flex­ible…rose­wood…and con­tain­ing…dear me…”

“An 'air from ze 'ead of a veela,” said Fleur. “One of my grand­muzzer's.”

So Fleur was part veela, thought Har­ry, mak­ing a men­tal note to tell Ron…then he re­mem­bered that Ron wasn't speak­ing to him.

“Yes,” said Mr. Ol­li­van­der, “yes, I've nev­er used veela hair my­self, of course. I find it makes for rather tem­per­amen­tal wands…how­ev­er, to each his own, and if this suits you…”

Mr. Ol­li­van­der ran his fin­gers along the wand, ap­par­ent­ly check­ing for scratch­es or bumps; then he mut­tered, “Or­chideous!” and a bunch of flow­ers burst from the wand tip.

“Very well, very well, it's in fine work­ing or­der,” said Mr. Ol­li­van­der, scoop­ing up the flow­ers and hand­ing them to Fleur with her wand. “Mr. Dig­gory, you next.”

Fleur glid­ed back to her seat, smil­ing at Cedric as he passed her.

“Ah, now, this is one of mine, isn't it?” said Mr. Ol­li­van­der, with much more en­thu­si­asm, as Cedric hand­ed over his wand. “Yes, I re­mem­ber it well. Con­tain­ing a sin­gle hair from the tail of a par­tic­ular­ly fine male uni­corn…must have been sev­en­teen hands; near­ly gored me with his horn af­ter I plucked his tail. Twelve and a quar­ter inch­es…ash…pleas­ant­ly springy. It's in fine con­di­tion…You treat it reg­ular­ly?”

“Pol­ished it last night,” said Cedric, grin­ning.

Har­ry hooked down at his own wand. He could see fin­ger marks all over it. He gath­ered a fist­ful of robe from his knee and tried to rub it clean sur­rep­ti­tious­ly. Sev­er­al gold sparks shot out of the end of it. Fleur Dela­cour gave him a very pa­tron­iz­ing look, and he de­sist­ed.

Mr. Ol­li­van­der sent a stream of sil­ver smoke rings across the room from the tip of Cedric's wand, pro­nounced him­self sat­is­fied, and then said, “Mr. Krum, if you please.”

Vik­tor Krum got up and slouched, round-​shoul­dered and duck-​foot­ed, to­ward Mr. Ol­li­van­der. He thrust out his wand and stood scowl­ing, with his hands in the pock­ets of his robes.

“Hmm,” said Mr. Ol­hivan­der, “this is a Gre­gorovitch cre­ation, un­less I'm much mis­tak­en? A fine wand-​mak­er, though the styling is nev­er quite what I…how­ev­er…”

He lift­ed the wand and ex­am­ined it minute­ly, turn­ing it over and over be­fore his eyes.

“Yes…horn­beam and drag­on heart­string?” he shot at Krum, who nod­ded. “Rather thick­er than one usu­al­ly sees…quite rigid…ten and a quar­ter inch­es…Avis!”

The horn­beam wand let off a blast hike a gun, and a num­ber of small, twit­ter­ing birds flew out of the end and through the open win­dow in­to the wa­tery sun­light.

“Good,” said Mr. Ol­li­van­der, hand­ing Krum back his wand. “Which leaves…Mr. Pot­ter.”

Har­ry got to his feet and walked past Krum to Mr. Ol­li­van­der. He hand­ed over his wand.

“Aaaah, yes,” said Mr. Ohli­van­der, his pale eyes sud­den­ly gleam­ing. “Yes, yes, yes. How well I re­mem­ber.”

Har­ry could re­mem­ber too. He could re­mem­ber it as though it had hap­pened yes­ter­day.…

Four sum­mers ago, on his eleventh birth­day, he had en­tered Mr. Ol­li­van­der's shop with Ha­grid to buy a wand. Mr. Ol­li­van­der had tak­en his mea­sure­ments and then start­ed hand­ing him wands to try. Har­ry had waved what felt like ev­ery wand in the shop, un­til at last he had found the one that suit­ed him - this one, which was made of hol­ly, eleven inch­es long, and con­tained a sin­gle feath­er from the tail of a phoenix. Mr. Ol­li­van­der had been very sur­prised that Har­ry had been so com­pat­ible with this wand. “Cu­ri­ous,” he had said, “cu­ri­ous,” and not un­til Har­ry asked what was cu­ri­ous had Mr. Ol­hivan­der ex­plained that the phoenix feath­er in Har­ry's wand had come from the same bird that had sup­plied the core of Lord Volde­mort's.

Har­ry had nev­er shared this piece of in­for­ma­tion with any­body. He was very fond of his wand, and as far as he was con­cerned its re­la­tion to Volde­mort's wand was some­thing it couldn't help - rather as he couldn't help be­ing re­lat­ed to Aunt Petu­nia. How­ev­er, he re­al­ly hoped that Mr. Ol­li­van­der wasn't about to tell the room about it. He had a fun­ny feel­ing Ri­ta Skeeter's Quick-​Quotes Quill might just ex­plode with ex­cite­ment if he did.

Mr. Ol­li­van­der spent much longer ex­am­in­ing Har­ry's wand than any­one else's. Even­tu­al­ly, how­ev­er, he made a foun­tain of wine shoot out of it, and hand­ed it back to Har­ry, an­nounc­ing that it was still in per­fect con­di­tion.

“Thank you all,” said Dum­ble­dore, stand­ing up at the judges' ta­ble. “You may go back to your lessons now - or per­haps it would be quick­er just to go down to din­ner, as they are about to end -”

Feel­ing that at last some­thing had gone right to­day, Har­ry got up to leave, but the man with the black cam­era jumped up and cleared his throat.

“Pho­tos, Dum­ble­dore, pho­tos!” cried Bag­man ex­cit­ed­ly. “All the judges and cham­pi­ons, what do you think, Ri­ta?”

“Er - yes, let's do those first,” said Ri­ta Skeeter, whose eyes were up­on Har­ry again. “And then per­haps some in­di­vid­ual shots.”

The pho­tographs took a long time. Madame Maxime cast ev­ery­one else in­to shad­ow wher­ev­er she stood, and the pho­tog­ra­pher couldn't stand far enough back to get her in­to the frame; even­tu­al­ly she had to sit while ev­ery­one else stood around her. Karkaroff kept twirling his goa­tee around his fin­ger to give it an ex­tra curl; Krum, whom Har­ry would have thought would have been used to this sort of thing, skulked, half-​hid­den, at the back of the group. The pho­tog­ra­pher seemed keen­est to get Fleur at the front, but Ri­ta Skeeter kept hur­ry­ing for­ward and drag­ging Har­ry in­to greater promi­nence. Then she in­sist­ed on sep­arate shots of all the cham­pi­ons. At last, they were free to go.

Har­ry went down to din­ner. Hermione wasn't there - he sup­posed she was still in the hos­pi­tal wing hav­ing her teeth fixed. He ate alone at the end of the ta­ble, then re­turned to Gryffind­or Tow­er, think­ing of all the ex­tra work on Sum­mon­ing Charms that he had to do. Up in the dor­mi­to­ry, he came across Ron.

“You've had an owl,” said Ron brusque­ly the mo­ment he walked in. He was point­ing at Har­ry's pil­low. The school barn owl was wait­ing for him there.

“Oh - right,” said Har­ry.

“And we've got to do our de­ten­tions to­mor­row night, Snape's dun­geon,” said Ron.

He then walked straight out of the room, not look­ing at Har­ry. For a mo­ment, Har­ry con­sid­ered go­ing af­ter him - he wasn't sure whether he want­ed to talk to him or hit him, both seemed quite ap­peal­ing - but the lure of Sir­ius's an­swer was too strong. Har­ry strode over to the barn owl, took the let­ter off its leg, and un­rolled it.



Har­ry -

I can't say ev­ery­thing I would like to in a let­ter, it's too risky in case the owl is in­ter­cept­ed - we need to talk face-​to-​face. Can you en­sure that you are alone by the fire in Gryffind­or Tow­er at one o'clock in the morn­ing on the 22nd ofNovem­ber?

I know bet­ter than any­one that you can look af­ter your­self and while you're around Dum­ble­dore and Moody I don't think any­one will be able to hurt you. How­ev­er, some­one seems to be hav­ing a good try. En­ter­ing you in that tour­na­ment would have been very risky, es­pe­cial­ly right un­der Dum­bkdore's nose.

Be on the watch, Har­ry. I still want to hear about any­thing un­usu­al. Let me know about the 22nd ofNovem­ber as quick­ly as you can.

Sir­ius





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER NINETEEN


THE HUN­GAR­IAN HORN­TAIL



T he prospect of talk­ing face-​to-​face with Sir­ius was all that sus­tained Har­ry over the next fort­night, the on­ly bright spot on a hori­zon that had nev­er looked dark­er. The shock of find­ing him­self school cham­pi­on had worn off slight­ly now, and the fear of what was fac­ing him had start­ed to sink in. The first task was draw­ing steadi­ly near­er; he felt as though it were crouch­ing ahead of him hike some hor­rif­ic mon­ster, bar­ring his path. He had nev­er suf­fered nerves like these; they were way be­yond any­thing he had ex­pe­ri­enced be­fore a Quid­ditch match, not even his last one against Slytherin, which had de­cid­ed who would win the Quid­ditch Cup. Har­ry was find­ing it hard to think about the fu­ture at all; he felt as though his whole life had been head­ing up to, and would fin­ish with, the first task.…

Ad­mit­ted­ly, he didn't see how Sir­ius was go­ing to make him feel any bet­ter about hav­ing to per­form an un­known piece of dif­fi­cult and dan­ger­ous mag­ic in front of hun­dreds of peo­ple, but the mere sight of a friend­ly face would be some­thing at the mo­ment. Har­ry wrote back to Sir­ius say­ing that he would be be­side the com­mon room fire at the time Sir­ius had sug­gest­ed; and he and Hermione spent a long time go­ing over plans for forc­ing any strag­glers out of the com­mon room on the night in ques­tion. If the worst came to the worst, they were go­ing to drop a bag of Dung­bombs, but they hoped they wouldn't have to re­sort to that - Filch would skin them alive.

In the mean­time, life be­came even worse for Har­ry with­in the con­fines of the cas­tle, for Ri­ta Skeeter had pub­lished her piece about the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment, and it had turned out to be not so much a re­port on the tour­na­ment as a high­ly col­ored life sto­ry of Har­ry. Much of the front page had been giv­en over to a pic­ture of Har­ry; the ar­ti­cle (con­tin­uing on pages two, six, and sev­en) had been all about Har­ry, the names of the Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang cham­pi­ons (mis­spelled) had been squashed in­to the last line of the ar­ti­cle, and Cedric hadn't been men­tioned at all.

The ar­ti­cle had ap­peared ten days ago, and Har­ry still got a sick, burn­ing feel­ing of shame in his stom­ach ev­ery time he thought about it. Ri­ta Skeeter had re­port­ed him say­ing an aw­ful lot of things that he couldn't re­mem­ber ev­er say­ing in his life, let alone in that broom cup­board.



I sup­pose I get my strength from my par­ents. I know they'd be very proud of me if they could see me now….Yes, some­times at night I still cry about them, I'm not ashamed to ad­mit it.…I know noth­ing will hurt me dur­ing the tour­na­ment, be­cause they're watch­ing over me…



But Ri­ta Skeeter had gone even fur­ther than trans­form­ing his “er's” in­to long, sick­ly sen­tences: She had in­ter­viewed oth­er peo­ple about him too.



Har­ry has at last found love at Hog­warts. His close friend, Col­in Creevey, says that Har­ry is rarely seen out of the com­pa­ny of one Hermione Granger, a stun­ning­ly pret­ty Mug­gle-​born girl who, like Har­ry, is one of the top stu­dents in the school.



From the mo­ment the ar­ti­cle had ap­peared, Har­ry had had to en­dure peo­ple -Slytherins, main­ly - quot­ing it at him as he passed and mak­ing sneer­ing com­ments.

“Want a han­ky, Pot­ter, in case you start cry­ing in Trans­fig­ura­tion?”

“Since when have you been one of the top stu­dents in the school, Pot­ter? Or is this a school you and Long­bot­tom have set up to­geth­er?”

“Hey - Har­ry!”

“Yeah, that's right!” Har­ry found him­self shout­ing as he wheeled around in the cor­ri­dor, hav­ing had just about enough. “I've just been cry­ing my eyes out over my dead mum, and I'm just off to do a bit more…”

“No - it was just - you dropped your quill.”

It was Cho. Har­ry felt the col­or ris­ing in his face.

“Oh - right - sor­ry,” he mut­tered, tak­ing the quill back.

“Er…good luck on Tues­day,” she said. “I re­al­ly hope you do well.”

Which left Har­ry feel­ing ex­treme­ly stupid.

Hermione had come in for her fair share of un­pleas­ant­ness too, but she hadn't yet start­ed yelling at in­no­cent by­standers; in fact, Har­ry was full of ad­mi­ra­tion for the way she was han­dling the sit­ua­tion.

“Stun­ning­ly pret­ty? Her?” Pan­sy Parkin­son had shrieked the first time she had come face-​to-​face with Hermione af­ter Ri­ta's ar­ti­cle had ap­peared. “What was she judg­ing against - a chip­munk?”

“Ig­nore it,” Hermione said in a dig­ni­fied voice, hold­ing her head in the air and stalk­ing past the snig­ger­ing Slytherin girls as though she couldn't hear them. “Just ig­nore it, Har­ry.”

But Har­ry couldn't ig­nore it. Ron hadn't spo­ken to him at all since he had told him about Snape's de­ten­tions. Har­ry had half hoped they would make things up dur­ing the two hours they were forced to pick­le rats' brains in Snape's dun­geon, but that had been the day Ri­ta's ar­ti­cle had ap­peared, which seemed to have con­firmed Ron's be­lief that Har­ry was re­al­ly en­joy­ing all the at­ten­tion.

Hermione was fu­ri­ous with the pair of them; she went from one to the oth­er, try­ing to force them to talk to each oth­er, but Har­ry was adamant: He would talk to Ron again on­ly if Ron ad­mit­ted that Har­ry hadn't put his name in the Gob­let of Fire and apol­ogized for call­ing him a liar.

“I didn't start this,” Har­ry said stub­born­ly. “It's his prob­lem.”

“You miss him!” Hermione said im­pa­tient­ly. “And I know he miss­es you -”

“Miss him?” said Har­ry. “I don't miss him…”

But this was a down­right lie. Har­ry liked Hermione very much, but she just wasn't the same as Ron. There was much hess laugh­ter and a lot more hang­ing around in the li­brary when Hermione was your best friend. Har­ry still hadn't mas­tered Sum­mon­ing Charms, he seemed to have de­vel­oped some­thing of a block about them, and Hermione in­sist­ed that learn­ing the the­ory would help. They con­se­quent­ly spent a lot of time por­ing over books dur­ing their lunchtimes.

Vik­tor Krum was in the li­brary an aw­ful lot too, and Har­ry won­dered what he was up to. Was he study­ing, or was he look­ing for things to help him through the first task? Hermione of­ten com­plained about Krum be­ing there - not that he ev­er both­ered them - but be­cause groups of gig­gling girls of­ten turned up to spy on him from be­hind book­shelves, and Hermione found the noise dis­tract­ing.

“He's not even good-​look­ing!” she mut­tered an­gri­ly, glar­ing at Krum's sharp pro­file. “They on­ly like him be­cause he's fa­mous! They wouldn't look twice at him if he couldn't do that Wonky-​Faint thing -”

“Wron­ski Feint,” said Har­ry, through grit­ted teeth. Quite apart from lik­ing to get Quid­ditch terms cor­rect, it caused him an­oth­er pang to imag­ine Ron's ex­pres­sion if he could have heard Hermione talk­ing about Wonky-​Faints.



It is a strange thing, but when you are dread­ing some­thing, and would give any­thing to slow down time, it has a dis­oblig­ing habit of speed­ing up. The days un­til the first task seemed to slip by as though some­one had fixed the clocks to work at dou­ble speed. Har­ry's feel­ing of bare­ly con­trolled pan­ic was with him wher­ev­er he went, as ev­er­pre­sent as the snide com­ments about the Dai­ly Prophet ar­ti­cle.

On the Sat­ur­day be­fore the first task, all stu­dents in the third year and above were per­mit­ted to vis­it the vil­lage of Hogsmeade. Hermione told Har­ry that it would do him good to get away from the cas­tle for a bit, and Har­ry didn't need much per­sua­sion.

“What about Ron, though?” he said. “Don't you want to go with him?”

“Oh…well…”Hermione went slight­ly pink. “I thought we might meet up with him in the Three Broom­sticks.…”

“No,” said Har­ry flat­ly.

“Oh Har­ry, this is so stupid -”

“I'll come, but I'm not meet­ing Ron, and I'm wear­ing my In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.”

“Oh all right then…” Hermione snapped, “but I hate talk­ing to you in that cloak, I nev­er know if I'm look­ing at you or not.”

So Har­ry put on his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in the dor­mi­to­ry, went back down­stairs, and to­geth­er he and Hermione set off for Hogsmeade.

Har­ry felt won­der­ful­ly free un­der the cloak; he watched oth­er stu­dents walk­ing past them as they en­tered the vil­lage, most of them sport­ing Sup­port Cedric Dig­gory! badges, but no hor­ri­ble re­marks came his way for a change, and no­body was quot­ing that stupid ar­ti­cle.

“Peo­ple keep look­ing at me now,” said Hermione grumpi­ly as they came out of Hon­ey­dukes Sweet­shop lat­er, eat­ing large cream-​filled choco­lates. “They think I'm talk­ing to my­self.”

“Don't move your lips so much then.”

“Come on, please just take off your cloak for a bit, no one's go­ing to both­er you here.”

“Oh yeah?” said Har­ry. “Look be­hind you.”

Ri­ta Skeeter and her pho­tog­ra­pher friend had just emerged from the Three Broom­sticks pub. Talk­ing in low voic­es, they passed right by Hermione with­out hook­ing at her. Har­ry backed in­to the wall of Hon­ey­dukes to stop Ri­ta Skeeter from hit­ting him with her crocodile-​skin hand­bag. When they were gone, Har­ry said, “She's stay­ing in the vil­lage. I bet she's com­ing to watch the first task.”

As he said it, his stom­ach flood­ed with a wave of molten pan­ic. He didn't men­tion this; he and Hermione hadn't dis­cussed what was com­ing in the first task much; he had the feel­ing she didn't want to think about it.

“She's gone,” said Hermione, look­ing right through Har­ry to­ward the end of the street. “Why don't we go and have a but­ter­beer in the Three Broom­sticks, it's a bit cold, isn't it? You don't have to talk to Ron!” she added ir­ri­ta­bly, cor­rect­ly in­ter­pret­ing his si­lence.

The Three Broom­sticks was packed, main­ly with Hog­warts stu­dents en­joy­ing their free af­ter­noon, but al­so with a va­ri­ety of mag­ical peo­ple Har­ry rarely saw any­where else. Har­ry sup­posed that as Hogsmeade was the on­ly all-​wiz­ard vil­lage in Britain, it was a bit of a haven for crea­tures like hags, who were not as adept as wiz­ards at dis­guis­ing them­selves.

It was very hard to move through crowds in the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, in case you ac­ci­den­tal­ly trod on some­one, which tend­ed to lead to awk­ward ques­tions. Har­ry edged slow­ly to­ward a spare ta­ble in the cor­ner while Hermione went to buy drinks. On his way through the pub, Har­ry spot­ted Ron, who was sit­ting with Fred, George, and Lee Jor­dan. Re­sist­ing the urge to give Ron a good hard poke in the back of the head, he fi­nal­ly reached the ta­ble and sat down at it.

Hermione joined him a mo­ment lat­er and slipped him a but­ter­beer un­der his cloak.

“I look like such an id­iot, sit­ting here on my own,” she mut­tered. “Lucky I brought some­thing to do.”

And she pulled out a note­book in which she had been keep­ing a record of S.P.E.W. mem­bers. Har­ry saw his and Ron's names at the top of the very short list. It seemed a long time ago that they had sat mak­ing up those pre­dic­tions to­geth­er, and Hermione had turned up and ap­point­ed them sec­re­tary and trea­sur­er.

“You know, maybe I should try and get some of the vil­lagers in­volved in S.P.E.W.,” Hermione said thought­ful­ly, look­ing around the pub.

“Yeah, right,” said Har­ry. He took a swig of but­ter­beer un­der his cloak. “Hermione, when are you go­ing to give up on this spew stuff?”

“When house-​elves have de­cent wages and work­ing con­di­tions!” she hissed back. “You know, I'm start­ing to think it's time for more di­rect ac­tion. I won­der how you get in­to the school kitchens?”

“No idea, ask Fred and George,” said Har­ry.

Hermione lapsed in­to thought­ful si­lence, while Har­ry drank his but­ter­beer, watch­ing the peo­ple in the pub. All of them looked cheer­ful and re­laxed. Ernie Macmil­lan and Han­nah Ab­bot were swap­ping Choco­late Frog cards at a near­by ta­ble; both of them sport­ing Sup­port Cedric Dig­gory ! badges on their cloaks. Right over by the door he saw Cho and a large group of her Raven­claw friends. She wasn't wear­ing a Cedric badge though.…This cheered up Har­ry very slight­ly.…

What wouldn't he have giv­en to be one of these peo­ple, sit­ting around laugh­ing and talk­ing, with noth­ing to wor­ry about but home­work? He imag­ined how it would have felt to be here if his name hadn't come out of the Gob­let of Fire. He wouldn't be wear­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, for one thing. Ron would be sit­ting with him. The three of them would prob­ably be hap­pi­ly imag­in­ing what dead­ly dan­ger­ous task the school cham­pi­ons would be fac­ing on Tues­day. He'd have been re­al­ly hook­ing for­ward to it, watch­ing them do what­ev­er it was…cheer­ing on Cedric with ev­ery­one else, safe in a seat at the back of the stands…

He won­dered how the oth­er cham­pi­ons were feel­ing. Ev­ery time he had seen Cedric late­ly, he had been sur­round­ed by ad­mir­ers and look­ing ner­vous but ex­cit­ed. Har­ry glimpsed Fleur Dela­cour from time to time in the cor­ri­dors; she looked ex­act­ly as she al­ways did, haughty and un­ruf­fled. And Krum just sat in the li­brary, por­ing over books.

Har­ry thought of Sir­ius, and the tight, tense knot in his chest seemed to ease slight­ly. He would be speak­ing to him in just over twelve hours, for tonight was the night they were meet­ing at the com­mon room fire - as­sum­ing noth­ing went wrong, as ev­ery­thing else had done late­ly…

“Look, it's Ha­grid!” said Hermione.

The back of Ha­grid's enor­mous shag­gy head - he had mer­ci­ful­ly aban­doned his bunch­es - emerged over the crowd. Har­ry won­dered why he hadn't spot­ted him at once, as Ha­grid was so large, but stand­ing up care­ful­ly, he saw that Ha­grid had been lean­ing low, talk­ing to Pro­fes­sor Moody. Ha­grid had his usu­al enor­mous tankard in front of him, but Moody was drink­ing from his hip flask. Madam Ros­mer­ta, the pret­ty land­la­dy, didn't seem to think much of this; she was look­ing askance at Moody as she col­lect­ed glass­es from ta­bles around them. Per­haps she thought it was an in­sult to her mulled mead, but Har­ry knew bet­ter. Moody had told them all dur­ing their last De­fense Against the Dark Arts les­son that he pre­ferred to pre­pare his own food and drink at all times, as it was so easy for Dark wiz­ards to poi­son an unat­tend­ed cup.

As Har­ry watched, he saw Ha­grid and Moody get up to leave. He waved, then re­mem­bered that Ha­grid couldn't see him. Moody, how­ev­er, paused, his mag­ical eye on the cor­ner where Har­ry was stand­ing. He tapped Ha­grid in the small of the back (be­ing un­able to reach his shoul­der), mut­tered some­thing to him, and then the pair of them made their way back across the pub to­ward Har­ry and Hermione's ta­ble.

“All right, Hermione?” said Ha­grid loud­ly.

“Hel­lo,” said Hermione, smil­ing back.

Moody limped around the ta­ble and bent down; Har­ry thought he was read­ing the S.P.E.W. note­book, un­til he mut­tered, “Nice cloak, Pot­ter.”

Har­ry stared at him in amaze­ment. The large chunk miss­ing from Moody's nose was par­tic­ular­ly ob­vi­ous at a few inch­es' dis­tance. Moody grinned.

“Can your eye - I mean, can you -?”

“Yeah, it can see through In­vis­ibil­ity Cloaks,” Moody said qui­et­ly. “And it's come in use­ful at times, I can tell you.”

Ha­grid was beam­ing down at Har­ry too. Har­ry knew Ha­grid couldn't see him, but Moody had ob­vi­ous­ly told Ha­grid he was there. Ha­grid now bent down on the pre­text of read­ing the S.P.E.W. note­book as well, and said in a whis­per so low that on­ly Har­ry could hear it, “Har­ry, meet me tonight at mid­night at me cab­in. Wear that cloak.”

Straight­en­ing up, Ha­grid said loud­ly, “Nice ter see yeh, Hermione,” winked, and de­part­ed. Moody fol­lowed him.

“Why does Ha­grid want me to meet him at mid­night?” Har­ry said, very sur­prised.

“Does he?” said Hermione, look­ing star­tled. “I won­der what he's up to? I don't know whether you should go, Har­ry.…” She looked ner­vous­ly around and hissed, “It might make you late for Sir­ius.”

It was true that go­ing down to Ha­grid's at mid­night would mean cut­ting his meet­ing with Sir­ius very fine in­deed; Hermione sug­gest­ed send­ing Hed­wig down to Ha­grid's to tell him he couldn't go - al­ways as­sum­ing she would con­sent to take the note, of course - Har­ry, how­ev­er, thought it bet­ter just to be quick at what­ev­er Ha­grid want­ed him for. He was very cu­ri­ous to know what this might be; Ha­grid had nev­er asked Har­ry to vis­it him so late at night.

At half past eleven that evening, Har­ry, who had pre­tend­ed to go up to bed ear­ly, pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak back over him­self and crept back down­stairs through the com­mon room. Quite a few peo­ple were still in there. The Creevey broth­ers had man­aged to get hold of a stack of Sup­port Cedric Dig­gory ! badges and were try­ing to be­witch them to make them say Sup­port Har­ry Pot­ter ! in­stead. So far, how­ev­er, all they had man­aged to do was get the badges stuck on POT­TER STINKS . Har­ry crept past them to the por­trait hole and wait­ed for a minute or so, keep­ing an eye on his watch. Then Hermione opened the Fat La­dy for him from out­side as they had planned. He slipped past her with a whis­pered “Thanks!” and set off through the cas­tle.

The grounds were very dark. Har­ry walked down the lawn to­ward the lights shin­ing in Ha­grid's cab­in. The in­side of the enor­mous Beaux­ba­tons car­riage was al­so lit up; Har­ry could hear Madame Maxime talk­ing in­side it as he knocked on Ha­grid's front door.

“You there, Har­ry?” Ha­grid whis­pered, open­ing the door and look­ing around.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, slip­ping in­side the cab­in and pulling the cloak down off his head. “What's up?”

“Got sum­mat ter show yeh,” said Ha­grid.

There was an air of enor­mous ex­cite­ment about Ha­grid. He was wear­ing a flow­er that re­sem­bled an over­sized ar­ti­choke in his but­ton­hole. It looked as though he had aban­doned the use of axle grease, but he had cer­tain­ly at­tempt­ed to comb his hair - Har­ry could see the comb's bro­ken teeth tan­gled in it.

“What're you show­ing me?” Har­ry said war­ily, won­der­ing if the skrewts had laid eggs, or Ha­grid had man­aged to buy an­oth­er gi­ant three-​head­ed dog off a stranger in a pub.

“Come with me, keep qui­et, an' keep yer­self cov­ered with that cloak,” said Ha­grid. “We won' take Fang, he won' like it…”

“Lis­ten, Ha­grid, I can't stay long.…I've got to be back up at the cas­tle by one o'clock -”

But Ha­grid wasn't lis­ten­ing; he was open­ing the cab­in door and strid­ing off in­to the night. Har­ry hur­ried to fol­low and found, to his great sur­prise, that Ha­grid was lead­ing him to the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage.

“Ha­grid, what -?”

“Shhh!” said Ha­grid, and he knocked three times on the door bear­ing the crossed gold­en wands.

Madame Maxime opened it. She was wear­ing a silk shawl wrapped around her mas­sive shoul­ders. She smiled when she saw Ha­grid.

“Ah, 'Agrid…it is time?”

“Bong-​sew­er,” said Ha­grid, beam­ing at her, and hold­ing out a hand to help her down the gold­en steps.

Madame Maxime closed the door be­hind her, Ha­grid of­fered her his arm, and they set off around the edge of the pad­dock con­tain­ing Madame Maxime's gi­ant winged hors­es, with Har­ry, to­tal­ly be­wil­dered, run­ning to keep up with them. Had Ha­grid want­ed to show him Madame Maxime? He could see her any old time he want­ed…she wasn't ex­act­ly hard to miss.…

But it seemed that Madame Maxime was in for the same treat as Har­ry, be­cause af­ter a while she said play­ful­ly, “Wair is it you are tak­ing me, 'Agrid?”

“Yeh'll en­joy this,” said Ha­grid gruffly, “worth seein', trust me. On'y - don' go tellin' any­one I showed yeh, right? Yeh're not s'posed ter know.”

“Of course not,” said Madame Maxime, flut­ter­ing her long black eye­lash­es.

And still they walked, Har­ry get­ting more and more ir­ri­tat­ed as he jogged along in their wake, check­ing his watch ev­ery now and then. Ha­grid had some hare­brained scheme in hand, which might make him miss Sir­ius. If they didn't get there soon, he was go­ing to turn around, go straight back to the cas­tle, and leave Ha­grid to en­joy his moon­lit stroll with Madame Maxime.…

But then - when they had walked so far around the perime­ter of the for­est that the cas­tle and the lake were out of sight - Har­ry heard some­thing. Men were shout­ing up ahead…then came a deaf­en­ing, ear­split­ting roar…

Ha­grid led Madame Maxime around a clump of trees and came to a halt. Har­ry hur­ried up along­side them - for a split sec­ond, he thought he was see­ing bon­fires, and men dart­ing around them - and then his mouth fell open.

Drag­ons.

Four ful­ly grown, enor­mous, vi­cious-​look­ing drag­ons were rear­ing on­to their hind legs in­side an en­clo­sure fenced with thick planks of wood, roar­ing and snort­ing - tor­rents of fire were shoot­ing in­to the dark sky from their open, fanged mouths, fifty feet above the ground on their out­stretched necks. There was a sil­very-​blue one with long, point­ed horns, snap­ping and snarling at the wiz­ards on the ground; a smooth-​scaled green one, which was writhing and stamp­ing with all its might; a red one with an odd fringe of fine gold spikes around its face, which was shoot­ing mush­room-​shaped fire clouds in­to the air; and a gi­gan­tic black one, more lizard-​hike than the oth­ers, which was near­est to them.

At least thir­ty wiz­ards, sev­en or eight to each drag­on, were at­tempt­ing to con­trol them, pulling on the chains con­nect­ed to heavy leather straps around their necks and legs. Mes­mer­ized, Har­ry looked up, high above him, and saw the eyes of the black drag­on, with ver­ti­cal pupils like a cat's, bulging with ei­ther fear or rage, he couldn't tell which.…It was mak­ing a hor­ri­ble noise, a yowl­ing, screech­ing scream.…

“Keep back there, Ha­grid!” yelled a wiz­ard near the fence, strain­ing on the chain he was hold­ing. “They can shoot fire at a range of twen­ty feet, you know! I've seen this Horn­tail do forty!”

“Is'n' it beau­ti­ful?” said Ha­grid soft­ly.

“It's no good!” yelled an­oth­er wiz­ard. “Stun­ning Spells, on the count of three!”

Har­ry saw each of the drag­on keep­ers pull out his wand.

“Stu­pe­fy!” they shout­ed in uni­son, and the Stun­ning Spells shot in­to the dark­ness like fiery rock­ets, burst­ing in show­ers of stars on the drag­ons' scaly hides -

Har­ry watched the drag­on near­est to them teeter dan­ger­ous­ly on its back legs; its jaws stretched wide in a silent howl; its nos­trils were sud­den­ly de­void of flame, though still smok­ing - then, very slow­ly, it fell. Sev­er­al tons of sinewy, scaly-​black drag­on hit the ground with a thud that Har­ry could have sworn made the trees be­hind him quake.

The drag­on keep­ers low­ered their wands and walked for­ward to their fall­en charges, each of which was the size of a small hill. They hur­ried to tight­en the chains and fas­ten them se­cure­ly to iron pegs, which they forced deep in­to the ground with their wands.

“Wan' a clos­er look?” Ha­grid asked Madame Maxime ex­cit­ed­ly. The pair of them moved right up to the fence, and Har­ry fol­lowed. The wiz­ard who had warned Ha­grid not to come any clos­er turned, and Har­ry re­al­ized who it was: Char­lie Weasley.

“All right, Ha­grid?” he pant­ed, com­ing over to talk. “They should be okay now - we put them out with a Sleep­ing Draft on the way here, thought it might be bet­ter for them to wake up in the dark and the qui­et - but, like you saw, they weren't hap­py, not hap­py at all -”

“What breeds you got here, Char­lie?” said Ha­grid, gaz­ing at the clos­est drag­on, the black one, with some­thing chose to rev­er­ence. Its eyes were still just open. Har­ry could see a strip of gleam­ing yel­low be­neath its wrin­kled black eye­lid.

“This is a Hun­gar­ian Horn­tail,” said Char­lie. “There's a Com­mon Welsh Green over there, the small­er one - a Swedish Short-​Snout, that blue-​gray - and a Chi­nese Fire­ball, that's the red.”

Char­lie looked around; Madame Maxime was strolling away around the edge of the en­clo­sure, gaz­ing at the stunned drag­ons.

“I didn't know you were bring­ing her, Ha­grid,” Char­lie said, frown­ing. “The cham­pi­ons aren't sup­posed to know what's com­ing - she's bound to tell her stu­dent, isn't she?”

“Jus' thought she'd like ter see 'em,” shrugged Ha­grid, still gaz­ing, en­rap­tured, at the drag­ons.

“Re­al­ly ro­man­tic date, Ha­grid,” said Char­lie, shak­ing his head.

“Four…” said Ha­grid, “so it's one fer each o' the cham­pi­ons, is it? What've they got­ta do - fight 'em?”

“Just get past them, I think,” said Char­lie. “We'll be on hand if it gets nasty, Ex­tin­guish­ing Spells at the ready. They want­ed nest­ing moth­ers, I don't know why…but I tell you this, I don't en­vy the one who gets the Horn­tail. Vi­cious thing. Its back end's as dan­ger­ous as its front, look.”

Char­lie point­ed to­ward the Horn­tail's tail, and Har­ry saw long, bronze-​col­ored spikes pro­trud­ing along it ev­ery few inch­es.

Five of Char­lie's fel­low keep­ers stag­gered up to the Horn­tail at that mo­ment, car­ry­ing a clutch of huge gran­ite-​gray eggs be­tween them in a blan­ket. They placed them care­ful­ly at the Horn­tail's side. Ha­grid let out a moan of long­ing.

“I've got them count­ed, Ha­grid,” said Char­lie stern­ly. Then he said, “How's Har­ry?”

“Fine,” said Ha­grid. He was still gaz­ing at the eggs.

“Just hope he's still fine af­ter he's faced this lot,” said Char­lie grim­ly, look­ing out over the drag­ons' en­clo­sure. “I didn't dare tell Mum what he's got to do for the first task; she's al­ready hav­ing kit­tens about him.…” Char­lie im­itat­ed his moth­er's anx­ious voice. “'How could they let him en­ter that tour­na­ment, he's much too young! I thought they were all safe, I thought there was go­ing to be an age lim­it!' She was in floods af­ter that Dai­ly Prophet ar­ti­cle about him. 'He still cries about his par­ents! Oh bless him, I nev­er knew!'”

Har­ry had had enough. Trust­ing to the fact that Ha­grid wouldn't miss him, with the at­trac­tions of four drag­ons and Madame Maxime to oc­cu­py him, he turned silent­ly and be­gan to walk away, back to the cas­tle.

He didn't know whether he was glad he'd seen what was com­ing or not. Per­haps this way was bet­ter. The first shock was over now. Maybe if he'd seen the drag­ons for the first time on Tues­day, he would have passed out cold in front of the whole school…but maybe he would any­way.…He was go­ing to be armed with his wand - which, just now, felt like noth­ing more than a nar­row strip of wood - against a fifty-​foot-​high, scaly, spike-​rid­den, fire-​breath­ing drag­on. And he had to get past it. With ev­ery­one watch­ing. How?

Har­ry sped up, skirt­ing the edge of the for­est; he had just un­der fif­teen min­utes to get back to the fire­side and talk to Sir­ius, and he couldn't re­mem­ber, ev­er, want­ing to talk to some­one more than he did right now - when, with­out warn­ing, he ran in­to some­thing very sol­id.

Har­ry fell back­ward, his glass­es askew, clutch­ing the cloak around him. A voice near­by said, “Ouch! Who's there?”

Har­ry hasti­ly checked that the cloak was cov­er­ing him and hay very still, star­ing up at the dark out­line of the wiz­ard he had hit. He rec­og­nized the goa­tee…it was Karkaroff.

“Who's there?” said Karkaroff again, very sus­pi­cious­ly, look­ing around in the dark­ness. Har­ry re­mained still and silent. Af­ter a minute or so, Karkaroff seemed to de­cide that he had hit some sort of an­imal; he was look­ing around at waist height, as though ex­pect­ing to see a dog. Then he crept back un­der the cov­er of the trees and start­ed to edge for­ward to­ward the place where the drag­ons were.

Very slow­ly and very care­ful­ly, Har­ry got to his feet and set off again as fast as he could with­out mak­ing too much noise, hur­ry­ing through the dark­ness back to­ward Hog­warts.

He had no doubt what­so­ev­er what Karkaroff was up to. He had sneaked off his ship to try and find out what the first task was go­ing to be. He might even have spot­ted Ha­grid and Madame Maxime head­ing off around the for­est to­geth­er - they were hard­ly dif­fi­cult to spot at a dis­tance…and now all Karkaroff had to do was fol­low the sound of voic­es, and he, like Madame Maxime, would know what was in store for the cham­pi­ons.

By the looks of it, the on­ly cham­pi­on who would be fac­ing the un­known on Tues­day was Cedric.

Har­ry reached the cas­tle, slipped in through the front doors, and be­gan to climb the mar­ble stairs; he was very out of breath, but he didn't dare slow down.…He had less than five min­utes to get up to the fire.…

“Balder­dash!” he gasped at the Fat La­dy, who was snooz­ing in her frame in front of the por­trait hole.

“If you say so,” she mut­tered sleep­ily, with­out open­ing her eyes, and the pic­ture swung for­ward to ad­mit him. Har­ry climbed in­side. The com­mon room was de­sert­ed, and, judg­ing by the fact that it smelled quite nor­mal, Hermione had not need­ed to set off any Dung­bombs to en­sure that he and Sir­ius got pri­va­cy.

Har­ry pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and threw him­self in­to an arm­chair in front of the fire. The room was in semi­dark­ness; the flames were the on­ly source of light. Near­by, on a ta­ble, the Sup­port Cedric Dig­gory! badges the Creeveys had been try­ing to im­prove were glint­ing in the fire­light. They now read POT­TER RE­AL­LY STINKS. Har­ry looked back in­to the flames, and jumped.

Sir­ius's head was sit­ting in the fire. If Har­ry hadn't seen Mr. Dig­gory do ex­act­ly this back in the Weasleys' kitchen, it would have scared him out of his wits. In­stead, his face break­ing in­to the first smile he had worn for days, he scram­bled out of his chair, crouched down by the hearth, and said, “Sir­ius - how're you do­ing?”

Sir­ius looked dif­fer­ent from Har­ry's mem­ory of him. When they had said good-​bye, Sir­ius's face had been gaunt and sunken, sur­round­ed by a quan­ti­ty of long, black, mat­ted hair - but the hair was short and clean now, Sir­ius's face was fuller, and he looked younger, much more like the on­ly pho­to­graph Har­ry had of him, which had been tak­en at the Pot­ters' wed­ding.

“Nev­er mind me, how are you?” said Sir­ius se­ri­ous­ly.

“I'm -” For a sec­ond, Har­ry tried to say “fine” - but he couldn't do it. Be­fore he could stop him­self, he was talk­ing more than he'd talked in days - about how no one be­lieved he hadn't en­tered the tour­na­ment of his own free will, how Ri­ta Skeeter had lied about him in the Dai­ly Prophet, how he couldn't walk down a cor­ri­dor with­out be­ing sneered at - and about Ron, Ron not be­liev­ing him, Ron's jeal­ousy…

“…and now Ha­grid's just shown me what's com­ing in the first task, and it's drag­ons, Sir­ius, and I'm a goner,” he fin­ished des­per­ate­ly.

Sir­ius looked at him, eyes full of con­cern, eyes that had not yet lost the look that Azk­aban had giv­en them - that dead­ened, haunt­ed look He had let Har­ry talk him­self in­to si­lence with­out in­ter­rup­tion, but now he said, “Drag­ons we can deal with, Har­ry, but we'll get to that in a minute - I haven't got long here…I've bro­ken in­to a wiz­ard­ing house to use the fire, but they could be back at any time. There are things I need to warn you about.”

“What?” said Har­ry, feel­ing his spir­its slip a fur­ther few notch­es.…Sure­ly there could be noth­ing worse than drag­ons com­ing?

“Karkaroff,” said Sir­ius. “Har­ry, he was a Death Eater. You know what Death Eaters are, don't you?”

“Yes - he - what?”

“He was caught, he was in Azk­aban with me, but he got re­leased. I'd bet ev­ery­thing that's why Dum­ble­dore want­ed an Au­ror at Hog­warts this year - to keep an eye on him. Moody caught Karkaroff. Put him in­to Azk­aban in the first place.”

“Karkaroff got re­leased?” Har­ry said slow­ly - his brain seemed to be strug­gling to ab­sorb yet an­oth­er piece of shock­ing in­for­ma­tion. “Why did they re­lease him?”

“He did a deal with the Min­istry of Mag­ic,” said Sir­ius bit­ter­ly. “He said he'd seen the er­ror of his ways, and then he named names…he put a load of oth­er peo­ple in­to Azk­aban in his place.…He's not very pop­ular in there, I can tell you. And since he got out, from what I can tell, he's been teach­ing the Dark Arts to ev­ery stu­dent who pass­es through that school of his. So watch out for the Durm­strang cham­pi­on as well.”

“Okay,” said Har­ry slow­ly. “But…are you say­ing Karkaroff put my name in the gob­let? Be­cause if he did, he's a re­al­ly good ac­tor. He seemed fu­ri­ous about it. He want­ed to stop me from com­pet­ing.”

“We know he's a good ac­tor,” said Sir­ius, “be­cause he con­vinced the Min­istry of Mag­ic to set him free, didn't he? Now, I've been keep­ing an eye on the Dai­ly Prophet, Har­ry -”

“- you and the rest of the world,” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

“- and read­ing be­tween the lines of that Skeeter wom­an's ar­ti­cle last month, Moody was at­tacked the night be­fore he start­ed at Hog­warts. Yes, I know she says it was an­oth­er false alarm,” Sir­ius said hasti­ly, see­ing Har­ry about to speak, “but I don't think so, some­how. I think some­one tried to stop him from get­ting to Hog­warts. I think some­one knew their job would be a lot more dif­fi­cult with him around. And no one's go­ing to look in­to it too close­ly; Mad-​Eye's heard in­trud­ers a bit too of­ten. But that doesn't mean he can't still spot the re­al thing. Moody was the best Au­ror the Min­istry ev­er had.”

“So…what are you say­ing?” said Har­ry slow­ly. “Karkaroff's try­ing to kill me? But - why?”

Sir­ius hes­itat­ed.

“I've been near­ing some very strange things,” he said slow­ly. “The Death Eaters seem to be a bit more ac­tive than usu­al late­ly. They showed them­selves at the Quid­ditch World Cup, didn't they? Some­one set off the Dark Mark…and then - did you hear about that Min­istry of Mag­ic witch who's gone miss­ing?”

“Bertha Jorkins?” said Har­ry.

“Ex­act­ly…she dis­ap­peared in Al­ba­nia, and that's def­inite­ly where Volde­mort was ru­mored to be last…and she would have known the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment was com­ing up, wouldn't she?”

“Yeah, but…it's not very like­ly she'd have walked straight in­to Volde­mort, is it?” said Har­ry.

“Lis­ten, I knew Bertha Jorkins,” said Sir­ius grim­ly. “She was at Hog­warts when I was, a few years above your dad and me. And she was an id­iot. Very nosy, but no brains, none at all. It's not a good com­bi­na­tion, Har­ry. I'd say she'd be very easy to lure in­to a trap.”

“So…so Volde­mort could have found out about the tour­na­ment?” said Har­ry. “Is that what you mean? You think Karkaroff might be here on his or­ders?”

“I don't know,” said Sir­ius slow­ly, “I just don't know…Karkaroff doesn't strike me as the type who'd go back to Volde­mort un­less he knew Volde­mort was pow­er­ful enough to pro­tect him. But who­ev­er put your name in that gob­let did it for a rea­son, and I can't help think­ing the tour­na­ment would be a very good way to at­tack you and make it hook like an ac­ci­dent.”

“Looks hike a re­al­ly good plan from where I'm stand­ing,” said Har­ry grin­ning bleaky. “They'll just have to stand back and let the drag­ons do their stuff.”

“Right - these drag­ons,” said Sir­ius, speak­ing very quick­ly now. “There's a way, Har­ry. Don't be tempt­ed to try a Stun­ning Spell - drag­ons are strong and too pow­er­ful­ly mag­ical to be knocked out by a sin­gle Stun­ner, you need about half a dozen wiz­ards at a time to over­come a drag­on -”

“Yeah, I know, I just saw,” said Har­ry.

“But you can do it alone,” said Sir­ius. “There is away, and a sim­ple spell's all you need. Just -”

But Har­ry held up a hand to si­lence him, his heart sud­den­ly pound­ing as though it would burst. He could hear foot­steps com­ing down the spi­ral stair­case be­hind him.

“Go!” he hissed at Sir­ius. “ Go! There's some­one com­ing!”

Har­ry scram­bled to his feet, hid­ing the fire - if some­one saw Sir­ius's face with­in the walls of Hog­warts, they would raise an almighty up­roar - the Min­istry would get dragged in - he, Har­ry, would be ques­tioned about Sir­ius's where­abouts -

Har­ry heard a tiny pop! in the fire be­hind him and knew Sir­ius had gone. He watched the bot­tom of the spi­ral stair­case. Who had de­cid­ed to go for a stroll at one o'clock in the morn­ing, and stopped Sir­ius from telling him how to get past a drag­on?

It was Ron. Dressed in his ma­roon pais­ley pa­ja­mas, Ron stopped dead fac­ing Har­ry across the room, and looked around.

“Who were you talk­ing to?” he said.

“What's that got to do with you?” Har­ry snarled. “What are you do­ing down here at this time of night?”

“I just won­dered where you -” Ron broke off, shrug­ging. “Noth­ing. I'm go­ing back to bed.”

“Just thought you'd come nos­ing around, did you?” Har­ry shout­ed. He knew that Ron had no idea what he'd walked in on, knew he hadn't done it on pur­pose, but he didn't care - at this mo­ment he hat­ed ev­ery­thing about Ron, right down to the sev­er­al inch­es of bare an­kle show­ing be­neath his pa­ja­ma trousers.

“Sor­ry about that,” said Ron, his face red­den­ing with anger. “Should've re­al­ized you didn't want to be dis­turbed. I'll let you get on with prac­tic­ing for your next in­ter­view in peace.”

Har­ry seized one of the POT­TER RE­AL­LY STINKS badges off the ta­ble and chucked it, as hard as he could, across the room. It hit Ron on the fore­head and bounced off.

“There you go,” Har­ry said. “Some­thing for you to wear on Tues­day. You might even have a scar now, if yon're lucky.…That's what you want, isn't it?”

He strode across the room to­ward the stairs; he half ex­pect­ed Ron to stop him, he would even have liked Ron to throw a punch at him, but Ron just stood there in his too-​small pa­ja­mas, and Har­ry, hav­ing stormed up­stairs, lay awake in bed fum­ing for a long time af­ter­ward and didn't hear him come up to bed.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY


THE FIRST TASK



H ar­ry got up on Sun­day morn­ing and dressed so inat­ten­tive­ly that it was a while be­fore he re­al­ized he was try­ing to pull his hat on­to his foot in­stead of his sock. When he'd fi­nal­ly got all his clothes on the right parts of his body, he hur­ried off to find Hermione, lo­cat­ing her at the Gryffind­or ta­ble in the Great Hall, where she was eat­ing break­fast with Gin­ny. Feel­ing too queasy to eat, Har­ry wait­ed un­til Hermione had swal­lowed her last spoon­ful of por­ridge, then dragged her out on­to the grounds. There, he told her all about the drag­ons, and about ev­ery­thing Sir­ius had said, while they took an­oth­er long walk around the lake.

Alarmed as she was by Sir­ius's warn­ings about Karkaroff, Hermione still thought that the drag­ons were the more press­ing prob­lem.

“Let's just try and keep you alive un­til Tues­day evening,” she said des­per­ate­ly, “and then we can wor­ry about Karkaroff.”

They walked three times around the lake, try­ing all the way to think of a sim­ple spell that would sub­due a drag­on. Noth­ing what­so­ev­er oc­curred to them, so they re­tired to the li­brary in­stead. Here, Har­ry pulled down ev­ery book he could find on drag­ons, and both of them set to work search­ing through the large pile.

“Talon-​clip­ping by charms…treat­ing scale-​rot…' This is no good, this is for nut­ters like Ha­grid who want to keep them healthy…”

“Drag­ons are ex­treme­ly dif­fi­cult to slay, ow­ing to the an­cient mag­ic that im­bues their thick hides, which none but the most pow­er­ful spells can pen­etrate…' But Sir­ius said a sim­ple one would do it…”

“Let's try some sim­ple spell­books, then,” said Har­ry, throw­ing aside Men Who Love Drag­ons Too Much.

He re­turned to the ta­ble with a pile of spell­books, set them down, and be­gan to flick through each in turn, Hermione whis­per­ing non­stop at his el­bow.

“Well, there are Switch­ing Spells…but what's the point of Switch­ing it? Un­less you swapped its fangs for wine-​gums or some­thing that would make it less dan­ger­ous.…The trou­ble is, like that book said, not much is go­ing to get through a drag­on's hide.…I'd say Trans­fig­ure it, but some­thing that big, you re­al­ly haven't got a hope, I doubt even Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall…un­less you're sup­posed to put the spell on your­self? Maybe to give your­self ex­tra pow­ers? But they're not sim­ple spells, I mean, we haven't done any of those in class, I on­ly know about them be­cause I've been do­ing O.W.L. prac­tice pa­pers.…”

“Hermione,” Har­ry said, through grit­ted teeth, “will you shut up for a bit, please? I m try­ing to con­cen­trate.”

But all that hap­pened, when Hermione fell silent, was that Har­ry's brain filled with a sort of blank buzzing, which didn't seem to al­low room for con­cen­tra­tion. He stared hope­less­ly down the in­dex of Ba­sic Hex­es for the Busy and Vexed. In­stant scalp­ing…but drag­ons had no hair…pep­per breath…that would prob­ably in­crease a drag­on's fire­pow­er…horn tongue…just what he need­ed, to give it an ex­tra weapon…

“Oh no, he's back again, why can't he read on his stupid ship?” said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly as Vik­tor Krum slouched in, cast a surly look over at the pair of them, and set­tled him­self in a dis­tant cor­ner with a pile of books. “Come on, Har­ry, we'll go back to the com­mon room…his fan club'll be here in a mo­ment, twit­ter­ing away….”

And sure enough, as they left the li­brary, a gang of girls tip­toed past them, one of them wear­ing a Bul­gar­ia scarf tied around her waist.



Har­ry bare­ly slept that night. When he awoke on Mon­day morn­ing, he se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­ered for the first time ev­er just run­ning away from Hog­warts. But as he looked around the Great Hall at break­fast time, and thought about what leav­ing the cas­tle would mean, he knew he couldn't do it. It was the on­ly place he had ev­er been hap­py…well, he sup­posed he must have been hap­py with his par­ents too, but he couldn't re­mem­ber that.

Some­how, the knowl­edge that he would rather be here and fac­ing a drag­on than back on Priv­et Drive with Dud­ley was good to know; it made him feel slight­ly calmer. He fin­ished his ba­con with dif­fi­cul­ty (his throat wasn't work­ing too well), and as he and Hermione got up, he saw Cedric Dig­gory leav­ing the Huf­flepuff ta­ble.

Cedric still didn't know about the drag­ons…the on­ly cham­pi­on who didn't, if Har­ry was right in think­ing that Maxime and Karkaroff would have told Fleur and Krum.…

“Hermione, I'll see you in the green­hous­es,” Har­ry said, com­ing to his de­ci­sion as he watched Cedric leav­ing the Hall. “Go on, I'll catch you up.”

“Har­ry, you'll be late, the bell's about to ring -”

“I'll catch you up, okay?”

By the time Har­ry reached the bot­tom of the mar­ble stair­case, Cedric was at the top. He was with a load of sixth-​year friends. Har­ry didn't want to talk to Cedric in front of them; they were among those who had been quot­ing Ri­ta Skeeter's ar­ti­cle at him ev­ery time he went near them. He fol­lowed Cedric at a dis­tance and saw that he was head­ing to­ward the Charms cor­ri­dor. This gave Har­ry an idea. Paus­ing at a dis­tance from them, he pulled out his wand, and took care­ful aim.

“Diffin­do!”

Cedric's bag split. Parch­ment, quills, and books spilled out of it on­to the floor. Sev­er­al bot­tles of ink smashed.

“Don't both­er,” said Cedric in an ex­as­per­at­ed voice as his friends bent down to help him. “Tell Flitwick I'm com­ing, go on…”

This was ex­act­ly what Har­ry had been hop­ing for. He slipped his wand back in­to his robes, wait­ed un­til Cedric's friends had dis­ap­peared in­to their class­room, and hur­ried up the cor­ri­dor, which was now emp­ty of ev­ery­one but him­self and Cedric.

“Hi,” said Cedric, pick­ing up a copy of A Guide to Ad­vanced Trans­fig­ura­tion that was now splat­tered with ink. “My bag just split…brand-​new and all…”

“Cedric,” said Har­ry, “the first task is drag­ons.”

“What?” said Cedric, look­ing up.

“Drag­ons,” said Har­ry, speak­ing quick­ly, in case Pro­fes­sor Flitwick came out to see where Cedric had got to. “They've got four, one for each of us, and we've got to get past them.”

Cedric stared at him. Har­ry saw some of the pan­ic he'd been feel­ing since Sat­ur­day night flick­er­ing in Cedric's gray eyes.

“Are you sure?” Cedric said in a hushed voice.

“Dead sure,” said Har­ry. “I've seen them.”

“But how did you find out? We're not sup­posed to know.…”

“Nev­er mind,” said Har­ry quick­ly - he knew Ha­grid would be in trou­ble if he told the truth. “But I'm not the on­ly one who knows. Fleur and Krum will know by now - Maxime and Karkaroff both saw the drag­ons too.”

Cedric straight­ened up, his arms full of inky quills, parch­ment, and books, his ripped bag dan­gling off one shoul­der. He stared at Har­ry, and there was a puz­zled, al­most sus­pi­cious look in his eyes.

“Why are you telling me?” he asked.

Har­ry looked at him in dis­be­lief. He was sure Cedric wouldn't have asked that if he had seen the drag­ons him­self. Har­ry wouldn't have let his worst en­emy face those mon­sters un­pre­pared - well, per­haps Mal­foy or Snape.…

“It's just…fair, isn't it?” he said to Cedric. “We all know now…we're on an even foot­ing, aren't we?”

Cedric was still hook­ing at him in a slight­ly sus­pi­cious way when Har­ry heard a fa­mil­iar clunk­ing noise be­hind him. He turned around and saw Mad-​Eye Moody emerg­ing from a near­by class­room.

“Come with me, Pot­ter,” he growled. “Dig­gory, off you go.”

Har­ry stared ap­pre­hen­sive­ly at Moody. Had he over­heard them?

“Er - Pro­fes­sor, I'm sup­posed to be in Her­bol­ogy -”

“Nev­er mind that, Pot­ter. In my of­fice, please…”

Har­ry fol­lowed him, won­der­ing what was go­ing to hap­pen to him now. What if Moody want­ed to know how he'd found out about the drag­ons? Would Moody go to Dum­ble­dore and tell on Ha­grid, or just turn Har­ry in­to a fer­ret? Well, it might be eas­ier to get past a drag­on if he were a fer­ret, Har­ry thought dul­ly, he'd be small­er, much less easy to see from a height of fifty feet.…

He fol­lowed Moody in­to his of­fice. Moody closed the door be­hind them and turned to look at Har­ry, his mag­ical eye fixed up­on him as well as the nor­mal one.

“That was a very de­cent thing you just did, Pot­ter,” Moody said qui­et­ly.

Har­ry didn't know what to say; this wasn't the re­ac­tion he had ex­pect­ed at all.

“Sit down,” said Moody, and Har­ry sat, look­ing around.

He had vis­it­ed this of­fice un­der two of its pre­vi­ous oc­cu­pants. In Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart's day, the walls had been plas­tered with beam­ing, wink­ing pic­tures of Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart him­self. When Lupin had lived here, you were more like­ly to come across a spec­imen of some fas­ci­nat­ing new Dark crea­ture he had pro­cured for them to study in class. Now, how­ev­er, the of­fice was full of a num­ber of ex­cep­tion­al­ly odd ob­jects that Har­ry sup­posed Moody had used in the days when he had been an Au­ror.

On his desk stood what looked hike a large, cracked, glass spin­ning top; Har­ry rec­og­nized it at once as a Sneako­scope, be­cause he owned one him­self, though it was much small­er than Moody's. In the cor­ner on a small ta­ble stood an ob­ject that looked some­thing like an ex­tra-​squig­gly, gold­en tele­vi­sion aeri­al. It was hum­ming slight­ly. What ap­peared to be a mir­ror hung op­po­site Har­ry on the wall, but it was not re­flect­ing the room. Shad­owy fig­ures were mov­ing around in­side it, none of them clear­ly in fo­cus.

“Like my Dark De­tec­tors, do you?” said Moody, who was watch­ing Har­ry close­ly.

“What's that?” Har­ry asked, point­ing at the squig­gly gold­en aeri­al.

“Se­cre­cy Sen­sor. Vi­brates when it de­tects con­ceal­ment and lies…no use here, of course, too much in­ter­fer­ence - stu­dents in ev­ery di­rec­tion ly­ing about why they haven't done their home­work. Been hum­ming ev­er since I got here. I had to dis­able my Sneako­scope be­cause it wouldn't stop whistling. It's ex­tra-​sen­si­tive, picks up stuff about a mile around. Of course, it could be pick­ing up more than kid stuff,” he added in a growl.

“And what's the mir­ror for?”

“Oh that's my Foe-​Glass. See them out there, skulk­ing around? I'm not re­al­ly in trou­ble un­til I see the whites of their eyes. That's when I open my trunk.”

He let out a short, harsh laugh, and point­ed to the large trunk un­der the win­dow. It had sev­en key­holes in a row. Har­ry won­dered what was in there, un­til Moody's next ques­tion brought him sharply back to earth.

“So…found out about the drag­ons, have you?”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. He'd been afraid of this - but he hadn't told Cedric, and he cer­tain­ly wasn't go­ing to tell Moody, that Ha­grid had bro­ken the rules.

“It's all right,” said Moody, sit­ting down and stretch­ing out his wood­en leg with a groan. “Cheat­ing's a tra­di­tion­al part of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment and al­ways has been.”

“I didn't cheat,” said Har­ry sharply. “It was - a sort of ac­ci­dent that I found out.”

Moody grinned. “I wasn't ac­cus­ing you, lad­die. I've been telling Dum­ble­dore from the start, he can be as high-​mind­ed as he likes, but you can bet old Karkaroff and Maxime won't be. They'll have told their cham­pi­ons ev­ery­thing they can. They want to win. They want to beat Dum­ble­dore. They'd like to prove he's on­ly hu­man.”

Moody gave an­oth­er harsh laugh, and his mag­ical eye swiveled around so fast it made Har­ry feel queasy to watch it.

“So…got any ideas how you're go­ing to get past your drag­on yet?” said Moody.

“No,” said Har­ry.

“Well, I'm not go­ing to tell you,” said Moody gruffly. “I don't show fa­voritism, me. I'm just go­ing to give you some good, gen­er­al ad­vice. And the first bit is - play to your strengths.”

“I haven't got any,” said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self.

“Ex­cuse me,” growled Moody, “you've got strengths if I say you've got them. Think now. What are you best at?”

Har­ry tried to con­cen­trate. What was he best at? Well, that was easy, re­al­ly -

“Quid­ditch,” he said dul­ly, “and a fat lot of help -”

“That's right,” said Moody, star­ing at him very hard, his mag­ical eye bare­ly mov­ing at all. “You're a damn good fli­er from what I've heard.”

“Yeah, but…” Har­ry stared at him. “I'm not al­lowed a broom, I've on­ly got my wand…”

“My sec­ond piece of gen­er­al ad­vice,” said Moody loud­ly, in­ter­rupt­ing him, “is to use a nice, sim­ple spell that will en­able you to get what you need.”

Har­ry looked at him blankly. What did he need?

“Come on, boy…” whis­pered Moody. “Put them to­geth­er…it's not that dif­fi­cult…”

And it clicked. He was best at fly­ing. He need­ed to pass the drag­on in the air. For that, he need­ed his Fire­bolt. And for his Fire-​bolt, he need­ed -



“Hermione,” Har­ry whis­pered, when he had sped in­to green­house three min­utes lat­er, ut­ter­ing a hur­ried apol­ogy to Pro­fes­sor Sprout as he passed her. “Hermione - I need you to help me.”

“What d'you think I've been try­ing to do, Har­ry?” she whis­pered back, her eyes round with anx­iety over the top of the quiv­er­ing Flut­ter­by Bush she was prun­ing.

“Hermione, I need to learn how to do a Sum­mon­ing Charm prop­er­ly by to­mor­row af­ter­noon.”



And so they prac­ticed. They didn't have lunch, but head­ed for a free class­room, where Har­ry tried with all his might to make var­ious ob­jects fly across the room to­ward him. He was still hav­ing prob­lems. The books and quills kept los­ing heart halfway across the room and drop­ping hike stones to the floor.

“Con­cen­trate, Har­ry, con­cen­trate.…”

“What d'you think I'm try­ing to do?” said Har­ry an­gri­ly. “A great big drag­on keeps pop­ping up in my head for some rea­son…Okay, try again…”

He want­ed to skip Div­ina­tion to keep prac­tic­ing, but Hermione re­fused point-​blank to skive off Arith­man­cy, and there was no point in stay­ing with­out her. He there­fore had to en­dure over an hour of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who spent half the les­son telling ev­ery­one that the po­si­tion of Mars with re­la­tion to Sat­urn at that mo­ment meant that peo­ple born in Ju­ly were in great dan­ger of sud­den, vi­olent deaths.

“Well, that's good,” said Har­ry loud­ly, his tem­per get­ting the bet­ter of him, “just as long as it's not drawn-​out. I don't want to suf­fer.”

Ron looked for a mo­ment as though he was go­ing to laugh; he cer­tain­ly caught Har­ry's eye for the first time in days, but Har­ry was still feel­ing too re­sent­ful to­ward Ron to care. He spent the rest of the les­son try­ing to at­tract small ob­jects to­ward him un­der the ta­ble with his wand. He man­aged to make a fly zoom straight in­to his hand, though he wasn't en­tire­ly sure that was his prowess at Sum­mon­ing Charms - per­haps the fly was just stupid.

He forced down some din­ner af­ter Div­ina­tion, then re­turned to the emp­ty class­room with Hermione, us­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak to avoid the teach­ers. They kept prac­tic­ing un­til past mid­night. They would have stayed longer, but Peeves turned up and, pre­tend­ing to think that Har­ry want­ed things thrown at him, start­ed chuck­ing chairs across the room. Har­ry and Hermione left in a hur­ry be­fore the noise at­tract­ed Filch, and went back to the Gryffind­or com­mon room, which was now mer­ci­ful­ly emp­ty.

At two o'clock in the morn­ing, Har­ry stood near the fire­place, sur­round­ed by heaps of ob­jects: books, quills, sev­er­al up­turned chairs, an old set of Gob­stones, and Neville's toad, Trevor. On­ly in the last hour had Har­ry re­al­ly got the hang of the Sum­mon­ing Charm.

“That's bet­ter, Har­ry, that's loads bet­ter,” Hermione said, look­ing ex­haust­ed but very pleased.

“Well, now we know what to do next time I can't man­age a spell,” Har­ry said, throw­ing a rune dic­tio­nary back to Hermione, so he could try again, “threat­en me with a drag­on. Right…” He raised his wand once more. “Ac­cio Dic­tio­nary!”

The heavy book soared out of Hermione's hand, flew across the room, and Har­ry caught it.

“Har­ry, I re­al­ly think you've got it!” said Hermione de­light­ed­ly.

“Just as long as it works to­mor­row,” Har­ry said. “The Fire­bolt's go­ing to be much far­ther away than the stuff in here, it's go­ing to be in the cas­tle, and I'm go­ing to be out there on the grounds…”

“That doesn't mat­ter,” said Hermione firm­ly.“ Just as long as you're con­cen­trat­ing re­al­ly, re­al­ly hard on it, it'll come. Har­ry, we'd bet­ter get some sleep…you're go­ing to need it.”



Har­ry had been fo­cus­ing so hard on learn­ing the Sum­mon­ing Charm that evening that some of his blind pan­ic had heft him. It re­turned in full mea­sure, how­ev­er, on the fol­low­ing morn­ing. The at­mo­sphere in the school was one of great ten­sion and ex­cite­ment. Lessons were to stop at mid­day, giv­ing all the stu­dents time to get down to the drag­ons' en­clo­sure - though of course, they didn't yet know what they would find there.

Har­ry felt odd­ly sep­arate from ev­ery­one around him, whether they were wish­ing him good luck or hiss­ing “We'll have a box of tis­sues ready, Pot­ter” as he passed. It was a state of ner­vous­ness so ad­vanced that he won­dered whether he mightn't just lose his head when they tried to lead him out to his drag­on, and start try­ing to curse ev­ery­one in sight. Time was be­hav­ing in a more pe­cu­liar fash­ion than ev­er, rush­ing past in great dol­lops, so that one mo­ment he seemed to be sit­ting down in his first les­son, His­to­ry of Mag­ic, and the next, walk­ing in­to lunch…and then (where had the morn­ing gone? the last of the drag­on-​free hours?), Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was hur­ry­ing over to him in the Great Hall. Lots of peo­ple were watch­ing.

“Pot­ter, the cham­pi­ons have to come down on­to the grounds now.…You have to get ready for your first task.”

“Okay,” said Har­ry, stand­ing up, his fork falling on­to his plate with a clat­ter.

“Good luck, Har­ry,” Hermione whis­pered. “You'll be fine!”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry in a voice that was most un­like his own.

He heft the Great Hall with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. She didn't seem her­self ei­ther; in fact, she looked near­ly as anx­ious as Hermione. As she walked him down the stone steps and out in­to the cold Novem­ber af­ter­noon, she put her hand on his shoul­der.

“Now, don't pan­ic,” she said, “just keep a cool head.…We've got wiz­ards stand­ing by to con­trol the sit­ua­tion if it gets out of hand.…The main thing is just to do your best, and no­body will think any the worse of you.…Are you all right?”

“Yes,” Har­ry heard him­self say. “Yes, I'm fine.”

She was lead­ing him to­ward the place where the drag­ons were, around the edge of the for­est, but when they ap­proached the clump of trees be­hind which the en­clo­sure would be clear­ly vis­ible, Har­ry saw that a tent had been erect­ed, its en­trance fac­ing them, screen­ing the drag­ons from view.

“You're to go in here with the oth­er cham­pi­ons,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, in a rather shaky sort of voice, “and wait for your turn, Pot­ter. Mr. Bag­man is in there…he'll be telling you the - the pro­ce­dure.… Good luck.”

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, in a flat, dis­tant voice. She left him at the en­trance of the tent. Har­ry went in­side.

Fleur Dela­cour was sit­ting in a cor­ner on a how wood­en stool. She didn't look near­ly as com­posed as usu­al, but rather pale and clam­my. Vik­tor Krum looked even surli­er than usu­al, which Har­ry sup­posed was his way of show­ing nerves. Cedric was pac­ing up and down. When Har­ry en­tered, Cedric gave him a small smile, which Har­ry re­turned, feel­ing the mus­cles in his face work­ing rather hard, as though they had for­got­ten how to do it.

“Har­ry! Good-​o!” said Bag­man hap­pi­ly, look­ing around at him. “Come in, come in, make your­self at home!”

Bag­man looked some­how like a slight­ly overblown car­toon fig­ure, stand­ing amid all the pale-​faced cham­pi­ons. He was wear­ing his old Wasp robes again.

“Well, now we're all here - time to fill you in!” said Bag­man bright­ly. “When the au­di­ence has as­sem­bled, I'm go­ing to be of­fer­ing each of you this bag” - he held up a small sack of pur­ple silk and shook it at them - “from which you will each se­lect a small mod­el of the thing you are about to face! There are dif­fer­ent - er - va­ri­eties, you see. And I have to tell you some­thing else too…ah, yes…your task is to col­lect the gold­en egg!”

Har­ry glanced around. Cedric had nod­ded once, to show that he un­der­stood Bag­man's words, and then start­ed pac­ing around the tent again; he looked slight­ly green. Fleur Dela­cour and Krum hadn't re­act­ed at all. Per­haps they thought they might be sick if they opened their mouths; that was cer­tain­ly how Har­ry felt. But they, at least, had vol­un­teered for this…

And in no time at all, hun­dreds up­on hun­dreds of pairs of feet could be heard pass­ing the tent, their own­ers talk­ing ex­cit­ed­ly, laugh­ing, jok­ing.…Har­ry felt as sep­arate from the crowd as though they were a dif­fer­ent species. And then - it seemed like about a sec­ond lat­er to Har­ry - Bag­man was open­ing the neck of the pur­ple silk sack.

“Ladies first,” he said, of­fer­ing it to Fleur Dela­cour.

She put a shak­ing hand in­side the bag and drew out a tiny, per­fect mod­el of a drag­on - a Welsh Green. It had the num­ber two around its neck And Har­ry knew, by the fact that Fleur showed no sign of sur­prise, but rather a de­ter­mined res­ig­na­tion, that he had been right: Madame Maxime had told her what was com­ing.

The same held true for Krum. He pulled out the scar­let Chi­nese Fire­ball. It had a num­ber three around its neck. He didn't even blink, just sat back down and stared at the ground.

Cedric put his hand in­to the bag, and out came the blueish-​gray Swedish Short-​Snout, the num­ber one tied around its neck. Know­ing what was left, Har­ry put his hand in­to the silk bag and pulled out the Hun­gar­ian Horn­tail, and the num­ber four. It stretched its wings as he looked down at it, and bared its mi­nus­cule fangs.

“Well, there you are!” said Bag­man. “You have each pulled out the drag­on you will face, and the num­bers re­fer to the or­der in which you are to take on the drag­ons, do you see? Now, I'm go­ing to have to leave you in a mo­ment, be­cause I'm com­men­tat­ing. Mr. Dig­gory, you're first, just go out in­to the en­clo­sure when you hear a whis­tle, all right? Now…Har­ry…could I have a quick word? Out­side?”

“Er…yes,” said Har­ry blankly, and he got up and went out of the tent with Bag­man, who walked him a short dis­tance away, in­to the trees, and then turned to him with a fa­ther­ly ex­pres­sion on his face.

“Feel­ing all right, Har­ry? Any­thing I can get you?”

“What?” said Har­ry. “I - no, noth­ing.”

“Got a plan?” said Bag­man, low­er­ing his voice con­spir­ato­ri­al­ly. “Be­cause I don't mind shar­ing a few point­ers, if you'd like them, you know. I mean,” Bag­man con­tin­ued, low­er­ing his voice still fur­ther, “you're the un­der­dog here, Har­ry.…Any­thing I can do to help…”

“No,” said Har­ry so quick­ly he knew he had sound­ed rude, “no - I - I know what I'm go­ing to do, thanks.”

“No­body would know, Har­ry,” said Bag­man, wink­ing at him.

“No, I'm fine,” said Har­ry, won­der­ing why he kept telling peo­ple this, and won­der­ing whether he had ev­er been less fine. “I've got a plan worked out, I -”

A whis­tle had blown some­where.

“Good lord, I've got to run!” said Bag­man in alarm, and he hur­ried off.

Har­ry walked back to the tent and saw Cedric emerg­ing from it, green­er than ev­er. Har­ry tried to wish him luck as he walked past, but all that came out of his mouth was a sort of hoarse grunt.

Har­ry went back in­side to Fleur and Krum. Sec­onds hater, they heard the roar of the crowd, which meant Cedric had en­tered the en­clo­sure and was now face-​to-​face with the liv­ing coun­ter­part of his mod­el.…

It was worse than Har­ry could ev­er have imag­ined, sit­ting there and lis­ten­ing. The crowd screamed…yelled…gasped like a sin­gle many-​head­ed en­ti­ty, as Cedric did what­ev­er he was do­ing to get past the Swedish Short-​Snout. Krum was still star­ing at the ground. Fleur had now tak­en to re­trac­ing Cedric's steps, around and around the tent. And Bag­man's com­men­tary made ev­ery­thing much, much worse.…Hor­ri­ble pic­tures formed in Har­ry's mind as he heard: “Oooh, nar­row miss there, very nar­row”… “He's tak­ing risks, this one!”…“Clever move - pity it didn't work!”

And then, af­ter about fif­teen min­utes, Har­ry heard the deaf­en­ing roar that could mean on­ly one thing: Cedric had got­ten past his drag­on and cap­tured the gold­en egg.

“Very good in­deed!” Bag­man was shout­ing. “And now the marks from the judges!”

But he didn't shout out the marks; Har­ry sup­posed the judges were hold­ing them up and show­ing them to the crowd.

“One down, three to go!” Bag­man yelled as the whis­tle blew again. “Miss Dela­cour, if you please!”

Fleur was trem­bling from head to foot; Har­ry felt more warm­ly to­ward her than he had done so far as she heft the tent with her head held high and her hand clutch­ing her wand. He and Krum were left alone, at op­po­site sides of the tent, avoid­ing each oth­er's gaze.

The same pro­cess start­ed again.…“Oh I'm not sure that was wise!” they could hear Bag­man shout­ing glee­ful­ly. “Oh…near­ly! Care­ful now…good lord, I thought she'd had it then!”

Ten min­utes lat­er, Har­ry heard the crowd erupt in­to ap­plause once more.…Fleur must have been suc­cess­ful too. A pause, while Fleur's marks were be­ing shown…more clap­ping…then, for the third time, the whis­tle.

“And here comes Mr. Krum!” cried Bag­man, and Krum slouched out, leav­ing Har­ry quite alone.

He felt much more aware of his body than usu­al; very aware of the way his heart was pump­ing fast, and his fin­gers tin­gling with fear…yet at the same time, he seemed to be out­side him­self, see­ing the walls of the tent, and hear­ing the crowd, as though from far away.

“Very dar­ing!” Bag­man was yelling, and Har­ry heard the Chi­nese Fire­ball emit a hor­ri­ble, roar­ing shriek, while the crowd drew its col­lec­tive breath. “That's some nerve he's show­ing - and - yes, he's got the egg!”

Ap­plause shat­tered the win­tery air like break­ing glass; Krum had fin­ished - it would be Har­ry's turn any mo­ment.

He stood up, notic­ing dim­ly that his legs seemed to be made of marsh­mal­low. He wait­ed. And then he heard the whis­tle blow. He walked out through the en­trance of the tent, the pan­ic ris­ing in­to a crescen­do in­side him. And now he was walk­ing past the trees, through a gap in the en­clo­sure fence.

He saw ev­ery­thing in front of him as though it was a very high­ly col­ored dream. There were hun­dreds and hun­dreds of faces star­ing down at him from stands that had been mag­icked there since he'd last stood on this spot. And there was the Horn­tail, at the oth­er end of the en­clo­sure, crouched low over her clutch of eggs, her wings half-​furled, her evil, yel­low eyes up­on him, a mon­strous, scaly, black lizard, thrash­ing her spiked tail, heav­ing yard-​long gouge marks in the hard ground. The crowd was mak­ing a great deal of noise, but whether friend­ly or not, Har­ry didn't know or care. It was time to do what he had to do…to fo­cus his mind, en­tire­ly and ab­so­lute­ly, up­on the thing that was his on­ly chance.

He raised his wand.

“Ac­cio Fire­bolt!” he shout­ed.

Har­ry wait­ed, ev­ery fiber of him hop­ing, pray­ing.…If it hadn't worked…if it wasn't com­ing…He seemed to be look­ing at ev­ery­thing around him through some sort of shim­mer­ing, trans­par­ent bar­ri­er, like a heat haze, which made the en­clo­sure and the hun­dreds of faces around him swim strange­ly.…

And then he heard it, speed­ing through the air be­hind him; he turned and saw his Fire­bolt hurtling to­ward him around the edge of the woods, soar­ing in­to the en­clo­sure, and stop­ping dead in midair be­side him, wait­ing for him to mount. The crowd was mak­ing even more noise.…Bag­man was shout­ing some­thing…but Har­ry's ears were not work­ing prop­er­ly any­more…lis­ten­ing wasn't im­por­tant.…

He swung his leg over the broom and kicked off from the ground. And a sec­ond lat­er, some­thing mirac­ulous hap­pened.…

As he soared up­ward, as the wind rushed through his hair, as the crowd's faces be­came mere flesh-​col­ored pinpnicks be­low, and the Horn­tail shrank to the size of a dog, he re­al­ized that he had left not on­ly the ground be­hind, but al­so his fear.…He was back where he be­longed.…

This was just an­oth­er Quid­ditch match, that was all…just an­oth­er Quid­ditch match, and that Horn­tail was just an­oth­er ug­ly op­pos­ing team.…

He looked down at the clutch of eggs and spot­ted the gold one, gleam­ing against its ce­ment-​col­ored fel­lows, re­sid­ing safe­ly be­tween the drag­on's front legs. “Okay,” Har­ry told him­self, “di­ver­sion­ary tac­tics…let's go…”

He dived. The Horn­tail's head fol­lowed him; he knew what it was go­ing to do and pulled out of the dive just in time; a jet of fire had been re­leased ex­act­ly where he would have been had he not swerved away…but Har­ry didn't care…that was no more than dodg­ing a Bludger.…

“Great Scott, he can fly!” yelled Bag­man as the crowd shrieked and gasped. “Are you watch­ing this, Mr. Krum?”

Har­ry soared high­er in a cir­cle; the Horn­tail was still fol­low­ing his progress; its head re­volv­ing on its long neck - if he kept this up, it would be nice­ly dizzy - but bet­ter not push it too long, or it would be breath­ing fire again -

Har­ry plum­met­ed just as the Horn­tail opened its mouth, but this time he was less lucky - he missed the flames, but the tail came whip­ping up to meet him in­stead, and as he swerved to the left, one of the long spikes grazed his shoul­der, rip­ping his robes -

He could feel it sting­ing, he could hear scream­ing and groans from the crowd, but the cut didn't seem to be deep.…Now he zoomed around the back of the Horn­tail, and a pos­si­bil­ity oc­curred to him.…

The Horn­tail didn't seem to want to take off, she was too pro­tec­tive of her eggs. Though she writhed and twist­ed, furl­ing and un­furl­ing her wings and keep­ing those fear­some yel­low eyes on Har­ry, she was afraid to move too far from them…but he had to per­suade her to do it, or he'd nev­er get near them.…The trick was to do it care­ful­ly, grad­ual­ly.…

He be­gan to fly, first this way, then the oth­er, not near enough to make her breathe fire to stave him off, but still pos­ing a suf­fi­cient threat to en­sure she kept her eyes on him. Her head swayed this way and that, watch­ing him out of those ver­ti­cal pupils, her fangs bared.…

He flew high­er. The Horn­tail's head rose with him, her neck now stretched to its fullest ex­tent, still sway­ing, hike a snake be­fore its charmer.…

Har­ry rose a few more feet, and she let out a roar of ex­as­per­ation. He was like a fly to her, a fly she was long­ing to swat; her tail thrashed again, but he was too high to reach now.…She shot fire in­to the air, which he dodged.…Her jaws opened wide.…

“Come on,” Har­ry hissed, swerv­ing tan­ta­liz­ing­ly above her, “come on, come and get me…up you get now…”

And then she reared, spread­ing her great, black, leath­ery wings at last, as wide as those of a small air­plane - and Har­ry dived. Be­fore the drag­on knew what he had done, or where he had dis­ap­peared to, he was speed­ing to­ward the ground as fast as he could go, to­ward the eggs now un­pro­tect­ed by her clawed front legs - he had tak­en his hands off his Fire­bolt - he had seized the gold­en egg -

And with a huge spurt of speed, he was off, he was soar­ing out over the stands, the heavy egg safe­ly un­der his un­in­jured arm, and it was as though some­body had just turned the vol­ume back up - for the first time, he be­came prop­er­ly aware of the noise of the crowd, which was scream­ing and ap­plaud­ing as loud­ly as the Irish sup­port­ers at the World Cup -

“Look at that!” Bag­man was yelling. “Will you look at that! Our youngest cham­pi­on is quick­est to get his egg! Well, this is go­ing to short­en the odds on Mr. Pot­ter!”

Har­ry saw the drag­on keep­ers rush­ing for­ward to sub­due the Horn­tail, and, over at the en­trance to the en­clo­sure, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Pro­fes­sor Moody, and Ha­grid hur­ry­ing to meet him, all of them wav­ing him to­ward them, their smiles ev­ident even from this dis­tance. He flew back over the stands, the noise of the crowd pound­ing his eardrums, and came in smooth­ly to land, his heart lighter than it had been in weeks.…He had got through the first task, he had sur­vived.…

“That was ex­cel­lent, Pot­ter!” cried Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall as he got off the Fire­bolt - which from her was ex­trav­agant praise. He no­ticed that her hand shook as she point­ed at his shoul­der. “You'll need to see Madam Pom­frey be­fore the judges give out your score.…Over there, she's had to mop up Dig­gory al­ready.…”

“Yeh did it, Har­ry!” said Ha­grid hoarse­ly. “Yeh did it! An' agains' the Horn­tail an' all, an' yeh know Char­lie said that was the wors' -”

“Thanks, Ha­grid,” said Har­ry loud­ly, so that Ha­grid wouldn't blun­der on and re­veal that he had shown Har­ry the drag­ons be­fore­hand.

Pro­fes­sor Moody looked very pleased too; his mag­ical eye was danc­ing in its sock­et.

“Nice and easy does the trick, Pot­ter,” he growled.

“Right then, Pot­ter, the first aid tent, please…” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Har­ry walked out of the en­clo­sure, still pant­ing, and saw Madam Pom­frey stand­ing at the mouth of a sec­ond tent, look­ing wor­ried.

“Drag­ons!” she said, in a dis­gust­ed tone, pulling Har­ry in­side. The tent was di­vid­ed in­to cu­bi­cles; he could make out Cedric's shad­ow through the can­vas, but Cedric didn't seem to be bad­ly in­jured; he was sit­ting up, at least. Madam Pom­frey ex­am­ined Har­ry's shoul­der, talk­ing fu­ri­ous­ly all the while. “Last year de­men­tors, this year drag­ons, what are they go­ing to bring in­to this school next? You're very lucky…this is quite shal­low…it'll need clean­ing be­fore I heal it up, though….”

She cleaned the cut with a dab of some pur­ple liq­uid that smoked and stung, but then poked his shoul­der with her wand, and he felt it heal in­stant­ly.

“Now, just sit qui­et­ly for a minute - sit! And then you can go and get your score.”

She bus­tled out of the tent and he heard her go next door and say, “How does it feel now, Dig­gory?”

Har­ry didn't want to sit still. He was too full of adrenaline. He got to his feet, want­ing to see what was go­ing on out­side, but be­fore he'd reached the mouth of the tent, two peo­ple had come dart­ing in­side - Hermione, fol­lowed close­ly by Ron.

“Har­ry, you were bril­liant!” Hermione said squeak­ily. There were fin­ger­nail marks on her face where she had been clutch­ing it in fear. “You were amaz­ing! You re­al­ly were!”

But Har­ry was look­ing at Ron, who was very white and star­ing at Har­ry as though he were a ghost.

“Har­ry,” he said, very se­ri­ous­ly, “who­ev­er put your name in that gob­let - I - I reck­on they're try­ing to do you in!”

It was as though the last few weeks had nev­er hap­pened - as though Har­ry were meet­ing Ron for the first time, right af­ter he'd been made cham­pi­on.

“Caught on, have you?” said Har­ry cold­ly. “Took you long enough.”

Hermione stood ner­vous­ly be­tween them, look­ing from one to the oth­er. Ron opened his mouth un­cer­tain­ly. Har­ry knew Ron was about to apol­ogize and sud­den­ly he found he didn't need to hear it.

“It's okay,” he said, be­fore Ron could get the words out. “For­get it.”

“No,” said Ron, “I shouldn't've -”

“For­get it, ”Har­ry said.

Ron grinned ner­vous­ly at him, and Har­ry grinned back.

Hermione burst in­to tears.

“There's noth­ing to cry about!” Har­ry told her, be­wil­dered.

“You two are so stupid!” she shout­ed, stamp­ing her foot on the ground, tears splash­ing down her front. Then, be­fore ei­ther of them could stop her, she had giv­en both of them a hug and dashed away, now pos­itive­ly howl­ing.

“Bark­ing mad,” said Ron, shak­ing his head. “Har­ry, c'mon, they'll be putting up your scores.…”

Pick­ing up the gold­en egg and his Fire­bolt, feel­ing more elat­ed than he would have be­lieved pos­si­ble an hour ago, Har­ry ducked out of the tent, Ron by his side, talk­ing fast.

“You were the best, you know, no com­pe­ti­tion. Cedric did this weird thing where he Trans­fig­ured a rock on the ground…turned it in­to a dog…he was try­ing to make the drag­on go for the dog in­stead of him. Well, it was a pret­ty cool bit of Trans­fig­ura­tion, and it sort of worked, be­cause he did get the egg, but he got burned as well - the drag­on changed its mind halfway through and de­cid­ed it would rather have him than the Labrador; he on­ly just got away. And that Fleur girl tried this sort of charm, I think she was try­ing to put it in­to a trance - well, that kind of worked too, it went all sleepy, but then it snored, and this great jet of flame shot out, and her skirt caught fire - she put it out with a bit of wa­ter out of her wand. And Krum - you won't be­lieve this, but he didn't even think of fly­ing! He was prob­ably the best af­ter you, though. Hit it with some sort of spell right in the eye. On­ly thing is, it went tram­pling around in agony and squashed half the re­al eggs - they took marks off for that, he wasn't sup­posed to do any dam­age to them.”

Ron drew breath as he and Har­ry reached the edge of the en­clo­sure. Now that the Horn­tail had been tak­en away, Har­ry could see where the five judges were sit­ting - right at the oth­er end, in raised seats draped in gold.

“It's marks out of ten from each one,” Ron said, and Har­ry squint­ing up the field, saw the first judge - Madame Maxime - raise her wand in the air. What hooked like a long sil­ver rib­bon shot out of it, which twist­ed it­self in­to a large fig­ure eight.

“Not bad!” said Ron as the crowd ap­plaud­ed. “I sup­pose she took marks off for your shoul­der…”

Mr. Crouch came next. He shot a num­ber nine in­to the air.

“Look­ing good!” Ron yelled, thump­ing Har­ry on the back.

Next, Dum­ble­dore. He too put up a nine. The crowd was cheer­ing hard­er than ev­er.

Lu­do Bag­man - ten.

“Ten?” said Har­ry in dis­be­lief. “But…I got hurt.…What's he play­ing at?”

“Har­ry, don't com­plain!” Ron yelled ex­cit­ed­ly.

And now Karkaroff raised his wand. He paused for a mo­ment, and then a num­ber shot out of his wand too - four.

“What?” Ron bel­lowed fu­ri­ous­ly. “Four? You lousy, bi­ased scum-​bag, you gave Krum ten!”

But Har­ry didn't care, he wouldn't have cared if Karkaroff had giv­en him ze­ro; Ron's in­dig­na­tion on his be­half was worth about a hun­dred points to him. He didn't tell Ron this, of course, but his heart felt lighter than air as he turned to leave the en­clo­sure. And it wasn't just Ron…those weren't on­ly Gryffind­ors cheer­ing in the crowd. When it had come to it, when they had seen what he was fac­ing, most of the school had been on his side as well as Cedric's.…He didn't care about the Slytherins, he could stand what­ev­er they threw at him now.

“You're tied in first place, Har­ry! You and Krum!” said Char­lie Weasley, hur­ry­ing to meet them as they set off back to­ward the school. “Lis­ten, I've got to run, I've got to go and send Mum an owl, I swore I'd tell her what hap­pened - but that was un­be­liev­able! Oh yeah - and they told me to tell you you've got to hang around for a few more min­utes.…Bag­man wants a word, back in the cham­pi­ons' tent.”

Ron said he would wait, so Har­ry reen­tered the tent, which some­how looked quite dif­fer­ent now: friend­ly and wel­com­ing. He thought back to how he'd felt while dodg­ing the Horn­tail, and com­pared it to the long wait be­fore he'd walked out to face it.…There was no com­par­ison; the wait had been im­mea­sur­ably worse.

Fleur, Cedric, and Krum all came in to­geth­er. One side of Cedric's face was cov­ered in a thick or­ange paste, which was pre­sum­ably mend­ing his burn. He grinned at Har­ry when he saw him.

“Good one, Har­ry.”

“And you,” said Har­ry, grin­ning back.

“Well done, all of you!” said Lu­do Bag­man, bounc­ing in­to the tent and look­ing as pleased as though he per­son­al­ly had just got past a drag­on. “Now, just a quick few words. You've got a nice long break be­fore the sec­ond task, which will take place at half past nine on the morn­ing of Febru­ary the twen­ty-​fourth - but we're giv­ing you some­thing to think about in the mean­time! If you look down at those gold­en eggs you're all hold­ing, you will see that they open…see the hinges there? You need to solve the clue in­side the egg - be­cause it will tell you what the sec­ond task is, and en­able you to pre­pare for it! All clear? Sure? Well, off you go, then!”

Har­ry left the tent, re­joined Ron, and they start­ed to walk back around the edge of the for­est, talk­ing hard; Har­ry want­ed to hear what the oth­er cham­pi­ons had done in more de­tail. Then, as they round­ed the clump of trees be­hind which Har­ry had first heard the drag­ons roar, a witch leapt out from be­hind them.

It was Ri­ta Skeeter. She was wear­ing acid-​green robes to­day; the Quick-​Quotes Quill in her hand blend­ed per­fect­ly against them.

“Con­grat­ula­tions, Har­ry!” she said, beam­ing at him. “I won­der if you could give me a quick word? How you felt fac­ing that drag­on? How you feel now, about the fair­ness of the scor­ing?”

“Yeah, you can have a word,” said Har­ry sav­age­ly. “Good-​bye.”

And he set off back to the cas­tle with Ron.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE


THE HOUSE-​ELF LIB­ER­ATION FRONT



H ar­ry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery that evening to find Pig­wid­geon, so that Har­ry could send Sir­ius a let­ter telling him that he had man­aged to get past his drag­on un­scathed. On the way, Har­ry filled Ron in on ev­ery­thing Sir­ius had told him about Karkaroff. Though shocked at first to hear that Karkaroff had been a Death Eater, by the time they en­tered the Owlery Ron was say­ing that they ought to have sus­pect­ed it all along.

“Fits, doesn't it?” he said. “Re­mem­ber what Mal­foy said on the train, about his dad be­ing friends with Karkaroff? Now we know where they knew each oth­er. They were prob­ably run­ning around in masks to­geth­er at the World Cup.…I'll tell you one thing, though, Har­ry, if it was Karkaroff who put your name in the gob­let, he's go­ing to be feel­ing re­al­ly stupid now, isn't he? Didn't work, did it? You on­ly got a scratch! Come here - I'll do it -”

Pig­wid­geon was so overex­cit­ed at the idea of a de­liv­ery he was fly­ing around and around Har­ry's head, hoot­ing in­ces­sant­ly. Ron snatched Pig­wid­geon out of the air and held him still while Har­ry at­tached the let­ter to his leg.

There's no way any of the oth­er tasks are go­ing to be that dan­ger­ous, how could they be?“ Ron went on as he car­ried Pig­wid­geon to the win­dow. ”You know what? I reck­on you could win this tour­na­ment, Har­ry, I'm se­ri­ous."

Har­ry knew that Ron was on­ly say­ing this to make up for his be­hav­ior of the last few weeks, but he ap­pre­ci­at­ed it all the same. Hermione, how­ev­er, leaned against the Owlery wall, fold­ed her arms, and frowned at Ron.

“Har­ry's got a long way to go be­fore he fin­ish­es this tour­na­ment,” she said se­ri­ous­ly. “If that was the first task, I hate to think what's com­ing next.”

“Right lit­tle ray of sun­shine, aren't you?” said Ron. “You and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney should get to­geth­er some­time.”

He threw Pig­wid­geon out of the win­dow. Pig­wid­geon plum­met­ed twelve feet be­fore man­ag­ing to pull him­self back up again; the let­ter at­tached to his leg was much longer and heav­ier than usu­al - Har­ry hadn't been able to re­sist giv­ing Sir­ius a blow-​by-​blow ac­count of ex­act­ly how he had swerved, cir­cled, and dodged the Horn­tail. They watched Pig­wid­geon dis­ap­pear in­to the dark­ness, and then Ron said, “Well, we'd bet­ter get down­stairs for your sur­prise par­ty, Har­ry - Fred and George should have nicked enough food from the kitchens by now.”

Sure enough, when they en­tered the Gryffind­or com­mon room it ex­plod­ed with cheers and yells again. There were moun­tains of cakes and flagons of pump­kin juice and but­ter­beer on ev­ery sur­face; Lee Jor­dan had let off some Fil­ibuster's Fire­works, so that the air was thick with stars and sparks; and Dean Thomas, who was very good at draw­ing, had put up some im­pres­sive new ban­ners, most of which de­pict­ed Har­ry zoom­ing around the Horn­tail's head on his Fire­bolt, though a cou­ple showed Cedric with his head on fire.

Har­ry helped him­self to food; he had al­most for­got­ten what it was like to feel prop­er­ly hun­gry, and sat down with Ron and Hermione. He couldn't be­lieve how hap­py he felt; he had Ron back on his side, he'd got­ten through the first task, and he wouldn't have to face the sec­ond one for three months.

“Blimey, this is heavy,” said Lee Jor­dan, pick­ing up the gold­en egg, which Har­ry had left on a ta­ble, and weigh­ing it in his hands. “Open it, Har­ry, go on! Let's just see what's in­side it!”

“He's sup­posed to work out the clue on his own,” Hermione said swift­ly. “It's in the tour­na­ment rules.…”

“I was sup­posed to work out how to get past the drag­on on my own too,” Har­ry mut­tered, so on­ly Hermione could hear him, and she grinned rather guilti­ly.

“Yeah, go on, Har­ry, open it!” sev­er­al peo­ple echoed.

Lee passed Har­ry the egg, and Har­ry dug his fin­ger­nails in­to the groove that ran all the way around it and prised it open.

It was hol­low and com­plete­ly emp­ty - but the mo­ment Har­ry opened it, the most hor­ri­ble noise, a loud and screechy wail­ing, filled the room. The near­est thing to it Har­ry had ev­er heard was the ghost or­ches­tra at Near­ly Head­less Nick's death­day par­ty, who had all been play­ing the mu­si­cal saw.

“Shut it!” Fred bel­lowed, his hands over his ears.

“What was that?” said Sea­mus Finni­gan, star­ing at the egg as Har­ry slammed it shut again. “Sound­ed like a ban­shee…Maybe you've got to get past one of those next, Har­ry!”

“It was some­one be­ing tor­tured!” said Neville, who had gone very white and spilled sausage rolls all over the floor. “You're go­ing to have to fight the Cru­cia­tus Curse!”

“Don't be a prat, Neville, that's il­le­gal,” said George. “They wouldn't use the Cru­cia­tus Curse on the cham­pi­ons. I thought it sound­ed a bit like Per­cy singing…maybe you've got to at­tack him while he's in the show­er. Har­ry.”

“Want a jam tart, Hermione?” said Fred.

Hermione looked doubt­ful­ly at the plate he was of­fer­ing her. Fred grinned.

“It's all right,” he said. “I haven't done any­thing to them. It's the cus­tard creams you've got to watch -”

Neville, who had just bit­ten in­to a cus­tard cream, choked and spat it out. Fred laughed.

“Just my lit­tle joke, Neville.…”

Hermione took a jam tart. Then she said, “Did you get all this from the kitchens, Fred?”

“Yep,” said Fred, grin­ning at her. He put on a high-​pitched squeak and im­itat­ed a house-​elf. “'any­thing we can get you, sir, any­thing at all!' They're dead help­ful…get me a roast ox if I said I was peck­ish.”

“How do you get in there?” Hermione said in an in­no­cent­ly ca­su­al sort of voice.

“Easy,” said Fred, “con­cealed door be­hind a paint­ing of a bowl of fruit. Just tick­le the pear, and it gig­gles and -” He stopped and looked sus­pi­cious­ly at her. “Why?”

“Noth­ing,” said Hermione quick­ly.

“Go­ing to try and lead the house-​elves out on strike now, are you?” said George. “Go­ing to give up all the leaflet stuff and try and stir them up in­to re­bel­lion?”

Sev­er­al peo­ple chor­tled. Hermione didn't an­swer.

“Don't you go up­set­ting them and telling them they've got to take clothes and salaries!” said Fred warn­ing­ly. “You'll put them off their cook­ing!”

Just then, Neville caused a slight di­ver­sion by turn­ing in­to a large ca­nary.

“Oh - sor­ry, Neville!” Fred shout­ed over all the laugh­ter. “I for­got - it was the cus­tard creams we hexed -”

With­in a minute, how­ev­er, Neville had molt­ed, and once his feath­ers had fall­en off, he reap­peared look­ing en­tire­ly nor­mal. He even joined in laugh­ing.

“Ca­nary Creams!” Fred shout­ed to the ex­citable crowd. “George and I in­vent­ed them - sev­en Sick­les each, a bar­gain!”

It was near­ly one in the morn­ing when Har­ry fi­nal­ly went up to the dor­mi­to­ry with Ron, Neville, Sea­mus, and Dean. Be­fore he pulled the cur­tains of his four-​poster shut. Har­ry set his tiny mod­el of the Hun­gar­ian Horn­tail on the ta­ble next to his bed, where it yawned, curled up, and closed its eyes. Re­al­ly, Har­ry thought, as he pulled the hang­ings on his four-​poster closed, Ha­grid had a point…they were all right, re­al­ly, drag­ons.…



The start of De­cem­ber brought wind and sleet to Hog­warts. Drafty though the cas­tle al­ways was in win­ter. Har­ry was glad of its fires and thick walls ev­ery time he passed the Durm­strang ship on the lake, which was pitch­ing in the high winds, its black sails bil­low­ing against the dark skies. He thought the Beaux­ba­tons car­avan was like­ly to be pret­ty chilly too. Ha­grid, he no­ticed, was keep­ing Madame Maxime's hors­es well pro­vid­ed with their pre­ferred drink of sin­gle-​malt whiskey; the fumes waft­ing from the trough in the com­er of their pad­dock was enough to make the en­tire Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class light-​head­ed. This was un­help­ful, as they were still tend­ing the hor­ri­ble skrewts and need­ed their wits about them.

“I'm not sure whether they hi­ber­nate or not,” Ha­grid told the shiv­er­ing class in the windy pump­kin patch next les­son. “Thought we'd jus' try an see if they fan­cied a kip…we'll jus' set­tle 'em down in these box­es.…”

There were now on­ly ten skrewts left; ap­par­ent­ly their de­sire to kill one an­oth­er had not been ex­er­cised out of them. Each of them was now ap­proach­ing six feet in length. Their thick gray ar­mor; their pow­er­ful, scut­tling legs; their fire-​blast­ing ends; their stings and their suck­ers, com­bined to make the skrewts the most re­pul­sive things Har­ry had ev­er seen. The class looked dispirit­ed­ly at the enor­mous box­es Ha­grid had brought out, all lined with pil­lows and fluffy blan­kets.

“We'll jus' lead 'em in here,” Ha­grid said, “an' put the lids on, and we'll see what hap­pens.”

But the skrewts, it tran­spired, did not hi­ber­nate, and did not ap­pre­ci­ate be­ing forced in­to pil­low-​lined box­es and nailed in. Ha­grid was soon yelling, “Don pan­ic, now, don' pan­ic!” while the skrewts ram­paged around the pump­kin patch, now strewn with the smol­der­ing wreck­age of the box­es. Most of the class - Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle in the lead - had fled in­to Ha­grid's cab­in through the back door and bar­ri­cad­ed them­selves in; Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, how­ev­er, were among those who re­mained out­side try­ing to help Ha­grid. To­geth­er they man­aged to re­strain and tie up nine of the skrewts, though at the cost of nu­mer­ous burns and cuts; fi­nal­ly, on­ly one skrewt was left.

“Don' fright­en him, now!” Ha­grid shout­ed as Ron and Har­ry used their wands to shoot jets of fiery sparks at the skrewt, which was ad­vanc­ing men­ac­ing­ly on them, its sting arched, quiv­er­ing, over its back. “Jus' try an slip the rope 'round his sting, so he won hurt any o' the oth­ers!”

“Yeah, we wouldn't want that!” Ron shout­ed an­gri­ly as he and Har­ry backed in­to the wall of Ha­grid's cab­in, still hold­ing the skrewt off with their sparks.

“Well, well, well…this does look like fun.”

Ri­ta Skeeter was lean­ing on Ha­grid's gar­den fence, look­ing in at the may­hem. She was wear­ing a thick ma­gen­ta cloak with a fur­ry pur­ple col­lar to­day, and her crocodile-​skin hand­bag was over her arm.

Ha­grid launched him­self for­ward on top of the skrewt that was cor­ner­ing Har­ry and Ron and flat­tened it; a blast of fire shot out of its end, with­er­ing the pump­kin plants near­by.

“Who're you?” Ha­grid asked Ri­ta Skeeter as he slipped a loop of rope around the skrewt's sting and tight­ened it.

“Ri­ta Skeeter, Dai­ly Prophet re­porter,” Ri­ta replied, beam­ing at him. Her gold teeth glint­ed.

“Thought Dum­ble­dore said you weren' al­lowed in­side the school any­more,” said Ha­grid, frown­ing slight­ly as he got off the slight­ly squashed skrewt and start­ed tug­ging it over to its fel­lows.

Ri­ta act­ed as though she hadn't heard what Ha­grid had said.

“What are these fas­ci­nat­ing crea­tures called?” she asked, beam­ing still more wide­ly.

“Blast-​End­ed Skrewts,” grunt­ed Ha­grid.

“Re­al­ly?” said Ri­ta, ap­par­ent­ly full of live­ly in­ter­est. “I've nev­er heard of them be­fore…where do they come from?”

Har­ry no­ticed a dull red flush ris­ing up out of Ha­grid's wild black beard, and his heart sank. Where had Ha­grid got the skrewts from? Hermione, who seemed to be think­ing along these lines, said quick­ly, “They're very in­ter­est­ing, aren't they? Aren't they. Har­ry?”

“What? Oh yeah…ouch…in­ter­est­ing,” said Har­ry as she stepped on his foot.

“Ah, you're here. Har­ry!” said Ri­ta Skeeter as she looked around. “So you like Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, do you? One of your fa­vorite lessons?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry stout­ly. Ha­grid beamed at him.

“Love­ly,” said Ri­ta. “Re­al­ly love­ly. Been teach­ing long?” she added to Ha­grid.

Har­ry no­ticed her eyes trav­el over Dean (who had a nasty cut across one cheek). Laven­der (whose robes were bad­ly singed), Sea­mus (who was nurs­ing sev­er­al burnt fin­gers), and then to the cab­in win­dows, where most of the class stood, their noses pressed against the glass wait­ing to see if the coast was clear.

“This is o'ny me sec­ond year,” said Ha­grid.

“Love­ly…I don't sup­pose you'd like to give an in­ter­view, would you? Share some of your ex­pe­ri­ence of mag­ical crea­tures? The Prophet does a zo­olog­ical col­umn ev­ery Wednes­day, as I'm sure you know. We could fea­ture these - er - Bang-​End­ed Scoots.”

“Blast-​End­ed Skrewts,” Ha­grid said ea­ger­ly. “Er - yeah, why not?”

Har­ry had a very bad feel­ing about this, but there was no way of com­mu­ni­cat­ing it to Ha­grid with­out Ri­ta Skeeter see­ing, so he had to stand and watch in si­lence as Ha­grid and Ri­ta Skeeter made ar­range­ments to meet in the Three Broom­sticks for a good long in­ter­view lat­er that week. Then the bell rang up at the cas­tle, sig­nal­ing the end of the les­son.

“Well, good-​bye, Har­ry!” Ri­ta Skeeter called mer­ri­ly to him as he set off with Ron and Hermione. “Un­til Fri­day night, then, Ha­grid!”

“She'll twist ev­ery­thing he says,” Har­ry said un­der his breath.

“Just as long as he didn't im­port those skrewts il­le­gal­ly or any­thing,” said Hermione des­per­ate­ly. They looked at one an­oth­er - it was ex­act­ly the sort of thing Ha­grid might do.

“Ha­grid's been in loads of trou­ble be­fore, and Dum­ble­dores nev­er sacked him,” said Ron con­sol­ing­ly. “Worst that can hap­pen is Ha­grid'll have to get rid of the skrewts. Sor­ry…did I say worst? I meant best.”

Har­ry and Hermione laughed, and, feel­ing slight­ly more cheer­ful, went off to lunch.

Har­ry thor­ough­ly en­joyed dou­ble Div­ina­tion that af­ter­noon; they were still do­ing star charts and pre­dic­tions, but now that he and Ron were friends once more, the whole thing seemed very fun­ny again. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who had been so pleased with the pair of them when they had been pre­dict­ing their own hor­rif­ic deaths, quick­ly be­came ir­ri­tat­ed as they snig­gered through her ex­pla­na­tion of the var­ious ways in which Plu­to could dis­rupt ev­ery­day life.

“I would think,” she said, in a mys­ti­cal whis­per that did not con­ceal her ob­vi­ous an­noy­ance, “that some of us” - she stared very mean­ing­ful­ly at Har­ry- “might be a lit­tle less frivolous had they seen what I have seen dur­ing my crys­tal gaz­ing last night. As I sat here, ab­sorbed in my needle­work, the urge to con­sult the orb over­pow­ered me. I arose, I set­tled my­self be­fore it, and I gazed in­to its crys­talline depths…and what do you think I saw gaz­ing back at me?”

“An ug­ly old bat in out­size specs?” Ron mut­tered un­der his breath.

Har­ry fought hard to keep his face straight.

“Death, my dears.”

Par­vati and Laven­der both put their hands over their mouths, look­ing hor­ri­fied.

“Yes,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, nod­ding im­pres­sive­ly, “it comes, ev­er clos­er, it cir­cles over­head like a vul­ture, ev­er low­er…ev­er low­er over the cas­tle.…”

She stared point­ed­ly at Har­ry, who yawned very wide­ly and ob­vi­ous­ly.

“It'd be a bit more im­pres­sive if she hadn't done it about eighty times be­fore,” Har­ry said as they fi­nal­ly re­gained the fresh air of the stair­case be­neath Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's room. “But if I'd dropped dead ev­ery time she's told me I'm go­ing to, I'd be a med­ical mir­acle.”

“You'd be a sort of ex­tra-​con­cen­trat­ed ghost,” said Ron, chortling, as they passed the Bloody Baron go­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion, his wide eyes star­ing sin­is­ter­ly. “At least we didn't get home­work. I hope Hermione got loads off Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor, I love not work­ing when she is.…”

But Hermione wasn't at din­ner, nor was she in the li­brary when they went to look for her af­ter­ward. The on­ly per­son in there was Vik­tor Krum. Ron hov­ered be­hind the book­shelves for a while, watch­ing Krum, de­bat­ing in whis­pers with Har­ry whether he should ask for an au­to­graph - but then Ron re­al­ized that six or sev­en girls were lurk­ing in the next row of books, de­bat­ing ex­act­ly the same thing, and he lost his en­thu­si­asm for the idea.

“Won­der where she's got to?” Ron said as he and Har­ry went back to Gryffind­or Tow­er.

“Dun­no…balder­dash.”

But the Fat La­dy had bare­ly be­gun to swing for­ward when the sound of rac­ing feet be­hind them an­nounced Hermione's ar­rival.

“Har­ry!” she pant­ed, skid­ding to a halt be­side him (the Fat La­dy stared down at her, eye­brows raised). “Har­ry, you've got to come - you've got to come, the most amaz­ing thing's hap­pened - please -”

She seized Har­ry's arm and start­ed to try to drag him back along the cor­ri­dor.

“What's the mat­ter?” Har­ry said.

“I'll show you when we get there - oh come on, quick -”

Har­ry looked around at Ron; he looked back at Har­ry, in­trigued.

“Okay,” Har­ry said, start­ing off back down the cor­ri­dor with Hermione, Ron hur­ry­ing to keep up.

“Oh don't mind me!” the Fat La­dy called ir­ri­ta­bly af­ter them. “Don't apol­ogize for both­er­ing me! I'll just hang here, wide open, un­til you get back, shall I?”

“Yeah, thanks!” Ron shout­ed over his shoul­der.

“Hermione, where are we go­ing?” Har­ry asked, af­ter she had led them down through six floors, and start­ed down the mar­ble stair­case in­to the en­trance hall.

“You'll see, you'll see in a minute!” said Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly.

She turned left at the bot­tom of the stair­case and hur­ried to­ward the door through which Cedric Dig­gory had gone the night af­ter the Gob­let of Fire had re­gur­gi­tat­ed his and Har­ry's names. Har­ry had nev­er been through here be­fore. He and Ron fol­lowed Hermione down a flight of stone steps, but in­stead of end­ing up in a gloomy un­der­ground pas­sage like the one that led to Snape's dun­geon, they found them­selves in a broad stone cor­ri­dor, bright­ly lit with torch­es, and dec­orat­ed with cheer­ful paint­ings that were main­ly of food.

“Oh hang on…” said Har­ry slow­ly, halfway down the cor­ri­dor. “Wait a minute, Hermione.…”

“What?” She turned around to look at him, an­tic­ipa­tion all over her face.

“I know what this is about,” said Har­ry.

He nudged Ron and point­ed to the paint­ing just be­hind Hermione. It showed a gi­gan­tic sil­ver fruit bowl.

“Hermione!” said Ron, cot­ton­ing on. “You're try­ing to rope us in­to that spew stuff again!”

“No, no, I'm not!” she said hasti­ly. “And it's not spew, Ron -”

“Changed the name, have you?” said Ron, frown­ing at her. “What are we now, then, the House-​Elf Lib­er­ation Front? I'm not barg­ing in­to that kitchen and try­ing to make them stop work, I'm not do­ing it -”

“I'm not ask­ing you to!” Hermione said im­pa­tient­ly. “I came down here just now, to talk to them all, and I found - oh come on, Har­ry, I want to show you!”

She seized his arm again, pulled him in front of the pic­ture of the gi­ant fruit bowl, stretched out her fore­fin­ger, and tick­led the huge green pear. It be­gan to squirm, chuck­ling, and sud­den­ly turned in­to a large green door han­dle. Hermione seized it, pulled the door open, and pushed Har­ry hard in the back, forc­ing him in­side.

He had one brief glimpse of an enor­mous, high-​ceilinged room, large as the Great Hall above it, with mounds of glit­ter­ing brass pots and pans heaped around the stone walls, and a great brick fire­place at the oth­er end, when some­thing small hur­tled to­ward him from the mid­dle of the room, squeal­ing, “Har­ry Pot­ter, sir! Har­ry Pot­ter!”

Next sec­ond all the wind had been knocked out of him as the squeal­ing elf hit him hard in the midriff, hug­ging him so tight­ly he thought his ribs would break.

“D-​Dob­by?” Har­ry gasped.

“It is Dob­by, sir, it is!” squealed the voice from some­where around his navel. “Dob­by has been hop­ing and hop­ing to see Har­ry Pot­ter, sir, and Har­ry Pot­ter has come to see him, sir!”

Dob­by let go and stepped back a few paces, beam­ing up at Har­ry, his enor­mous, green, ten­nis-​ball-​shaped eyes brim­ming with tears of hap­pi­ness. He looked al­most ex­act­ly as Har­ry re­mem­bered him; the pen­cil-​shaped nose, the bat­like ears, the long fin­gers and feet - all ex­cept the clothes, which were very dif­fer­ent.

When Dob­by had worked for the Mal­foys, he had al­ways worn the same filthy old pil­low­case. Now, how­ev­er, he was wear­ing the strangest as­sort­ment of gar­ments Har­ry had ev­er seen; he had done an even worse job of dress­ing him­self than the wiz­ards at the World Cup. He was wear­ing a tea cozy for a hat, on which he had pinned a num­ber of bright badges; a tie pat­terned with horse­shoes over a bare chest, a pair of what looked like chil­dren's soc­cer shorts, and odd socks. One of these, Har­ry saw, was the black one Har­ry had re­moved from his own foot and tricked Mr. Mal­foy in­to giv­ing Dob­by, there­by set­ting Dob­by free. The oth­er was cov­ered in pink and or­ange stripes.

“Dob­by, what're you do­ing here?” Har­ry said in amaze­ment.

“Dob­by has come to work at Hog­warts, sir!” Dob­by squealed ex­cit­ed­ly. "Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore gave Dob­by and Winky jobs, sir!

“Winky?” said Har­ry. “She's here too?”

“Yes, sir, yes!” said Dob­by, and he seized Har­ry's hand and pulled him off in­to the kitchen be­tween the four long wood­en ta­bles that stood there. Each of these ta­bles, Har­ry no­ticed as he passed them, was po­si­tioned ex­act­ly be­neath the four House ta­bles above, in the Great Hall. At the mo­ment, they were clear of food, din­ner hav­ing fin­ished, but he sup­posed that an hour ago they had been laden with dish­es that were then sent up through the ceil­ing to their coun­ter­parts above.

At least a hun­dred lit­tle elves were stand­ing around the kitchen, beam­ing, bow­ing, and curt­sy­ing as Dob­by led Har­ry past them. They were all wear­ing the same uni­form: a tea tow­el stamped with the Hog­warts crest, and tied, as Winky's had been, like a to­ga.

Dob­by stopped in front of the brick fire­place and point­ed.

“Winky, sir!” he said.

Winky was sit­ting on a stool by the fire. Un­like Dob­by, she had ob­vi­ous­ly not for­aged for clothes. She was wear­ing a neat lit­tle skirt and blouse with a match­ing blue hat, which had holes in it for her large ears. How­ev­er, while ev­ery one of Dob­by's strange col­lec­tion of gar­ments was so clean and well cared for that it looked brand-​new, Winky was plain­ly not tak­ing care oth­er clothes at all. There were soup stains all down her blouse and a burn in her skirt.

“Hel­lo, Winky,” said Har­ry.

Winky's lip quiv­ered. Then she burst in­to tears, which spilled out of her great brown eyes and splashed down her front, just as they had done at the Quid­ditch World Cup.

“Oh dear,” said Hermione. She and Ron had fol­lowed Har­ry and Dob­by to the end of the kitchen. “Winky, don't cry, please don't…”

But Winky cried hard­er than ev­er. Dob­by, on the oth­er hand, beamed up at Har­ry.

“Would Har­ry Pot­ter like a cup of tea?” he squeaked loud­ly, over Winky's sobs.

“Er - yeah, okay,” said Har­ry.

In­stant­ly, about six house-​elves came trot­ting up be­hind him, bear­ing a large sil­ver tray laden with a teapot, cups for Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, a milk jug, and a large plate of bis­cuits.

“Good ser­vice!” Ron said, in an im­pressed voice. Hermione frowned at him, but the elves all looked de­light­ed; they bowed very low and re­treat­ed.

“How long have you been here, Dob­by?” Har­ry asked as Dob­by hand­ed around the tea.

“On­ly a week. Har­ry Pot­ter, sir!” said Dob­by hap­pi­ly. “Dob­by came to see Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, sir. You see, sir, it is very dif­fi­cult for a house-​elf who has been dis­missed to get a new po­si­tion, sir, very dif­fi­cult in­deed -”

At this, Winky howled even hard­er, her squashed-​toma­to of a nose drib­bling all down her front, though she made no ef­fort to stem the flow.

“Dob­by has trav­eled the coun­try for two whole years, sir, try­ing to find work!” Dob­by squeaked. “But Dob­by hasn't found work, sir, be­cause Dob­by wants pay­ing now!”

The house-​elves all around the kitchen, who had been lis­ten­ing and watch­ing with in­ter­est, all looked away at these words, as though Dob­by had said some­thing rude and em­bar­rass­ing. Hermione, how­ev­er, said, “Good for you, Dob­by!”

“Thank you, miss!” said Dob­by, grin­ning toothily at her. “But most wiz­ards doesn't want a house-​elf who wants pay­ing, miss. 'That's not the point of a house-​elf,' they says, and they slammed the door in Dob­by's face! Dob­by likes work, but he wants to wear clothes and he wants to be paid. Har­ry Pot­ter.…Dob­by likes be­ing free!”

The Hog­warts house-​elves had now start­ed edg­ing away from Dob­by, as though he were car­ry­ing some­thing con­ta­gious. Winky, how­ev­er, re­mained where she was, though there was a def­inite in­crease in the vol­ume oth­er cry­ing.

“And then, Har­ry Pot­ter, Dob­by goes to vis­it Winky, and finds out Winky has been freed too, sir!” said Dob­by de­light­ed­ly.

At this, Winky flung her­self for­ward off her stool and lay face-​down on the flagged stone floor, beat­ing her tiny fists up­on it and pos­itive­ly scream­ing with mis­ery. Hermione hasti­ly dropped down to her knees be­side her and tried to com­fort her, but noth­ing she said made the slight­est dif­fer­ence. Dob­by con­tin­ued with his sto­ry, shout­ing shril­ly over Winky's screech­es.

“And then Dob­by had the idea. Har­ry Pot­ter, sir! 'Why doesn't Dob­by and Winky find work to­geth­er?' Dob­by says. 'Where is there enough work for two house-​elves?' says Winky. And Dob­by thinks, and it comes to him, sir! Hog­warts! So Dob­by and Winky came to see Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, sir, and Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore took us on!”

Dob­by beamed very bright­ly, and hap­py tears welled in his eyes again.

“And Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore says he will pay Dob­by, sir, if Dob­by wants pay­ing! And so Dob­by is a free elf, sir, and Dob­by gets a Galleon a week and one day off a month!”

“That's not very much!” Hermione shout­ed in­dig­nant­ly from the floor, over Winky's con­tin­ued scream­ing and fist-​beat­ing.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore of­fered Dob­by ten Galleons a week, and week­ends off,” said Dob­by, sud­den­ly giv­ing a lit­tle shiv­er, as though the prospect of so much leisure and rich­es were fright­en­ing, “but Dob­by beat him down, miss.…Dob­by likes free­dom, miss, but he isn't want­ing too much, miss, he likes work bet­ter.”

“And how much is Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore pay­ing you, Winky?” Hermione asked kind­ly.

If she had thought this would cheer up Winky, she was wild­ly mis­tak­en. Winky did stop cry­ing, but when she sat up she was glar­ing at Hermione through her mas­sive brown eyes, her whole face sop­ping wet and sud­den­ly fu­ri­ous.

“Winky is a dis­graced elf, but Winky is not yet get­ting paid!” she squeaked. “Winky is not sunk so low as that! Winky is prop­er­ly ashamed of be­ing freed!”

“Ashamed?” said Hermione blankly. “But - Winky, come on! It's Mr. Crouch who should be ashamed, not you! You didn't do any­thing wrong, he was re­al­ly hor­ri­ble to you -”

But at these words, Winky clapped her hands over the holes in her hat, flat­ten­ing her ears so that she couldn't hear a word, and screeched, “You is not in­sult­ing my mas­ter, miss! You is not in­sult­ing Mr. Crouch! Mr. Crouch is a good wiz­ard, miss! Mr. Crouch is right to sack bad Winky!”

“Winky is hav­ing trou­ble ad­just­ing, Har­ry Pot­ter,” squeaked Dob­by con­fi­den­tial­ly. “Winky for­gets she is not bound to Mr. Crouch any­more; she is al­lowed to speak her mind now, but she won't do it.”

“Can't house-​elves speak their minds about their mas­ters, then?” Har­ry asked.

“Oh no, sir, no,” said Dob­by, look­ing sud­den­ly se­ri­ous. “'Tis part of the house-​elf's en­slave­ment, sir. We keeps their se­crets and our si­lence, sir. We up­holds the fam­ily's hon­or, and we nev­er speaks ill of them - though Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore told Dob­by he does not in­sist up­on this. Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore said we is free to - to -”

Dob­by looked sud­den­ly ner­vous and beck­oned Har­ry clos­er. Har­ry bent for­ward. Dob­by whis­pered, “He said we is free to call him a - a barmy old codger if we likes, sir!”

Dob­by gave a fright­ened sort of gig­gle.

“But Dob­by is not want­ing to, Har­ry Pot­ter,” he said, talk­ing nor­mal­ly again, and shak­ing his head so that his ears flapped. “Dob­by likes Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore very much, sir, and is proud to keep his se­crets and our si­lence for him.”

“But you can say what you like about the Mal­foys now?” Har­ry asked him, grin­ning.

A slight­ly fear­ful look came in­to Dob­by's im­mense eyes.

“Dob­by - Dob­by could,” he said doubt­ful­ly. He squared his small shoul­ders. “Dob­by could tell Har­ry Pot­ter that his old mas­ters were - were - bad Dark wiz­ards!”

Dob­by stood for a mo­ment, quiv­er­ing all over, hor­ror-​struck by his own dar­ing - then he rushed over to the near­est ta­ble and be­gan bang­ing his head on it very hard, squeal­ing, “Bad Dob­by! Bad Dob­by!”

Har­ry seized Dob­by by the back of his tie and pulled him away from the ta­ble.

“Thank you. Har­ry Pot­ter, thank you,” said Dob­by breath­less­ly, rub­bing his head.

“You just need a bit of prac­tice,” Har­ry said.

“Prac­tice!” squealed Winky fu­ri­ous­ly. “You is ought to be ashamed of your­self, Dob­by, talk­ing that way about your mas­ters!”

“They isn't my mas­ters any­more, Winky!” said Dob­by de­fi­ant­ly. “Dob­by doesn't care what they think any­more!”

“Oh you is a bad elf, Dob­by!” moaned Winky, tears leak­ing down her face once more. “My poor Mr. Crouch, what is he do­ing with­out Winky? He is need­ing me, he is need­ing my help! I is look­ing af­ter the Crouch­es all my life, and my moth­er is do­ing it be­fore me, and my grand­moth­er is do­ing it be­fore her…oh what is they say­ing if they knew Winky was freed? Oh the shame, the shame!” She buried her face in her skirt again and bawled.

“Winky,” said Hermione firm­ly, “I'm quite sure Mr. Crouch is get­ting along per­fect­ly well with­out you. We've seen him, you know -”

“You is see­ing my mas­ter?” said Winky breath­less­ly, rais­ing her tearstained face out of her skirt once more and gog­gling at Hermione. “You is see­ing him here at Hog­warts?”

“Yes,” said Hermione, “he and Mr. Bag­man are judges in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment.”

“Mr. Bag­man comes too?” squeaked Winky, and to Har­ry 's great sur­prise (and Ron's and Hermione's too, by the looks on their faces), she looked an­gry again. “Mr. Bag­man is a bad wiz­ard! A very bad wiz­ard! My mas­ter isn't lik­ing him, oh no, not at all!”

“Bag­man - bad?” said Har­ry.

“Oh yes,” Winky said, nod­ding her head fu­ri­ous­ly, “My mas­ter is telling Winky some things! But Winky is not say­ing…Winky - Winky keeps her mas­ter's se­crets.…”

She dis­solved yet again in tears; they could hear her sob­bing in­to her skirt, “Poor mas­ter, poor mas­ter, no Winky to help him no more!”

They couldn't get an­oth­er sen­si­ble word out of Winky. They left her to her cry­ing and fin­ished their tea, while Dob­by chat­ted hap­pi­ly about his life as a free elf and his plans for his wages.

“Dob­by is go­ing to buy a sweater next, Har­ry Pot­ter!” he said hap­pi­ly, point­ing at his bare chest.

“Tell you what, Dob­by,” said Ron, who seemed to have tak­en a great lik­ing to the elf, “I'll give you the one my mum knits me this Christ­mas, I al­ways get one from her. You don't mind ma­roon, do you?”

Dob­by was de­light­ed.

“We might have to shrink it a bit to fit you,” Ron told him, “but it'll go well with your tea cozy.”

As they pre­pared to take their leave, many of the sur­round­ing elves pressed in up­on them, of­fer­ing snacks to take back up­stairs. Hermione re­fused, with a pained look at the way the elves kept bow­ing and curt­sy­ing, but Har­ry and Ron load­ed their pock­ets with cream cakes and pies.

“Thanks a lot!” Har­ry said to the elves, who had all clus­tered around the door to say good night. “See you, Dob­by!”

“Har­ry Pot­ter…can Dob­by come and see you some­times, sir?” Dob­by asked ten­ta­tive­ly.

“ 'Course you can,” said Har­ry, and Dob­by beamed.

“You know what?” said Ron, once he, Hermione, and Har­ry had left the kitchens be­hind and were climb­ing the steps in­to the en­trance hall again. “All these years I've been re­al­ly im­pressed with Fred and George, nick­ing food from the kitchens - well, it's not ex­act­ly dif­fi­cult, is it? They can't wait to give it away!”

“I think this is the best thing that could have hap­pened to those elves, you know,” said Hermione, lead­ing the way back up the mar­ble stair­case. “Dob­by com­ing to work here, I mean. The oth­er elves will see how hap­py he is, be­ing free, and slow­ly it'll dawn on them that they want that too!”

“Let's hope they don't look too close­ly at Winky,” said Har­ry.

“Oh she'll cheer up,” said Hermione, though she sound­ed a bit doubt­ful. “Once the shock's worn off, and she's got used to Hog­warts, she'll see how much bet­ter off she is with­out that Crouch man.”

“She seems to love him,” said Ron thick­ly (he had just start­ed on a cream cake).

“Doesn't think much of Bag­man, though, does she?” said Har­ry. “Won­der what Crouch says at home about him?”

“Prob­ably says he's not a very good Head of De­part­ment,” said Hermione, “and let's face it…he's got a point, hasn't he?”

“I'd still rather work for him than old Crouch,” said Ron. “At least Bag­man's got a sense of hu­mor.”

“Don't let Per­cy hear you say­ing that,” Hermione said, smil­ing slight­ly.

“Yeah, well, Per­cy wouldn't want to work for any­one with a sense of hu­mor, would he?” said Ron, now start­ing on a choco­late eclair. “Per­cy wouldn't rec­og­nize a joke if it danced naked in front of him wear­ing Dob­by's tea cozy.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO


THE UN­EX­PECT­ED TASK



“ P ot­ter! Weasley! Will you pay at­ten­tion?”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's ir­ri­tat­ed voice cracked like a whip through the Trans­fig­ura­tion class on Thurs­day, and Har­ry and Ron both jumped and looked up.

It was the end of the les­son; they had fin­ished their work; the guinea fowl they had been chang­ing in­to guinea pigs had been shut away in a large cage on Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's desk (Neville's still had feath­ers); they had copied down their home­work from the black­board (“De­scribe, with ex­am­ples, the ways in which Trans­form­ing Spells must be adapt­ed when per­form­ing Cross-​Species Switch­es”}. The bell was due to ring at any mo­ment, and Har­ry and Ron, who had been hav­ing a sword fight with a cou­ple of Fred and George's fake wands at the back of the class, looked up, Ron hold­ing a tin par­rot and Har­ry, a rub­ber had­dock.

“Now that Pot­ter and Weasley have been kind enough to act their age,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, with an an­gry look at the pair of them as the head of Har­ry's had­dock drooped and fell silent­ly to the floor - Ron's par­rot's beak had sev­ered it mo­ments be­fore - "I have some­thing to say to you all.

“The Yule Ball is ap­proach­ing - a tra­di­tion­al part of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment and an op­por­tu­ni­ty for us to so­cial­ize with our for­eign guests. Now, the ball will be open on­ly to fourth years and above - al­though you may in­vite a younger stu­dent if you wish -”

Laven­der Brown let out a shrill gig­gle. Par­vati Patil nudged her hard in the ribs, her face work­ing fu­ri­ous­ly as she too fought not to gig­gle. They both looked around at Har­ry, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ig­nored them, which Har­ry thought was dis­tinct­ly un­fair, as she had just told off him and Ron.

“Dress robes will be worn,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­tin­ued, “and the ball will start at eight o'clock on Christ­mas Day, fin­ish­ing at mid­night in the Great Hall. Now then -”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stared de­lib­er­ate­ly around the class.

“The Yule Ball is of course a chance for us all to - er - let our hair down,” she said, in a dis­ap­prov­ing voice.

Laven­der gig­gled hard­er than ev­er, with her hand pressed hard against her mouth to sti­fle the sound. Har­ry could see what was fun­ny this time: Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, with her hair in a tight bun, looked as though she had nev­er let her hair down in any sense.

“But that does NOT mean,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall went on, “that we will be re­lax­ing the stan­dards of be­hav­ior we ex­pect from Hog­warts stu­dents. I will be most se­ri­ous­ly dis­pleased if a Gryffind­or stu­dent em­bar­rass­es the school in any way.”

The bell rang, and there was the usu­al scuf­fle of ac­tiv­ity as ev­ery­one packed their bags and swung them on­to their shoul­ders.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall called above the noise, “Pot­ter - a word, if you please.”

As­sum­ing this had some­thing to do with his head­less rub­ber had­dock, Har­ry pro­ceed­ed gloomi­ly to the teach­er's desk. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall wait­ed un­til the rest of the class had gone, and then said, “Pot­ter, the cham­pi­ons and their part­ners -”

“What part­ners?” said Har­ry.

Pro­fe­sor McG­ona­gall looked sus­pi­cious­ly at him, as though she thought he was try­ing to be fun­ny.

“Your part­ners for the Yule Ball, Pot­ter,” she said cold­ly. “Your dance part­ners.”

Har­ry's in­sides seemed to curl up and shriv­el.

“Dance part­ners?” He felt him­self go­ing red. “I don't dance,” he said quick­ly.

“Oh yes, you do,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ir­ri­ta­bly. “That's what I'm telling you. Tra­di­tion­al­ly, the cham­pi­ons and their part­ners open the ball.”

Har­ry had a sud­den men­tal im­age of him­self in a top hat and tails, ac­com­pa­nied by a girl in the sort of frilly dress Aunt Petu­nia al­ways wore to Un­cle Ver­non's work par­ties.

“I'm not danc­ing,” he said.

“It is tra­di­tion­al,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall firm­ly. “You are a Hog­warts cham­pi­on, and you will do what is ex­pect­ed of you as a rep­re­sen­ta­tive of the school. So make sure you get your­self a part­ner, Pot­ter.”

“But - I don't -”

“You heard me, Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in a very fi­nal sort of way.



A week ago. Har­ry would have said find­ing a part­ner for a dance would be a cinch com­pared to tak­ing on a Hun­gar­ian Horn­tail. But now that he had done the lat­ter, and was fac­ing the prospect of ask­ing a girl to the ball, he thought he'd rather have an­oth­er round with the drag­on.

Har­ry had nev­er known so many peo­ple to put their names down to stay at Hog­warts for Christ­mas; he al­ways did, of course, be­cause the al­ter­na­tive was usu­al­ly go­ing back to Priv­et Drive, but he had al­ways been very much in the mi­nor­ity be­fore now. This year, how­ev­er, ev­ery­one in the fourth year and above seemed to be stay­ing, and they all seemed to Har­ry to be ob­sessed with the com­ing ball - or at least all the girls were, and it was amaz­ing how many girls Hog­warts sud­den­ly seemed to hold; he had nev­er quite no­ticed that be­fore. Girls gig­gling and whis­per­ing in the cor­ri­dors, girls shriek­ing with laugh­ter as boys passed them, girls ex­cit­ed­ly com­par­ing notes on what they were go­ing to wear on Christ­mas night.…

“Why do they have to move in packs?” Har­ry asked Ron as a dozen or so girls walked past them, snig­ger­ing and star­ing at Har­ry. “How're you sup­posed to get one on their own to ask them?”

“Las­so one?” Ron sug­gest­ed. “Got any idea who you're go­ing to try?”

Har­ry didn't an­swer. He knew per­fect­ly well whom he'd like to ask, but work­ing up the nerve was some­thing else.…Cho was a year old­er than he was; she was very pret­ty; she was a very good Quid­ditch play­er, and she was al­so very pop­ular.

Ron seemed to know what was go­ing on in­side Har­ry's head.

“Lis­ten, you're not go­ing to have any trou­ble. You're a cham­pi­on. You've just beat­en a Hun­gar­ian Horn­tail. I bet they'll be queu­ing up to go with you.”

In trib­ute to their re­cent­ly re­paired friend­ship, Ron had kept the bit­ter­ness in his voice to a bare min­imum. More­over, to Har­ry's amaze­ment, he turned out to be quite right.

A curly-​haired third-​year Huf­flepuff girl to whom Har­ry had nev­er spo­ken in his life asked him to go to the ball with her the very next day. Har­ry was so tak­en aback he said no be­fore he'd even stopped to con­sid­er the mat­ter. The girl walked off look­ing rather hurt, and Har­ry had to en­dure Dean's, Sea­mus's, and Ron's taunts about her all through His­to­ry of Mag­ic. The fol­low­ing day, two more girls asked him, a sec­ond year and (to his hor­ror) a fifth year who looked as though she might knock him out if he re­fused.

“She was quite good-​look­ing,” said Ron fair­ly, af­ter he'd stopped laugh­ing.

“She was a foot taller than me,” said Har­ry, still un­nerved. “Imag­ine what I'd look like try­ing to dance with her.”

Hermione's words about Krum kept com­ing back to him. “They on­ly like him be­cause he's fa­mous!” Har­ry doubt­ed very much if any of the girls who had asked to be his part­ner so far would have want­ed to go to the ball with him if he hadn't been a school cham­pi­on. Then he won­dered if this would both­er him if Cho asked him.

On the whole. Har­ry had to ad­mit that even with the em­bar­rass­ing prospect of open­ing the ball be­fore him, life had def­inite­ly im­proved since he had got through the first task. He wasn't at­tract­ing near­ly as much un­pleas­ant­ness in the cor­ri­dors any­more, which he sus­pect­ed had a lot to do with Cedric - he had an idea Cedric might have told the Huf­flepuffs to leave Har­ry alone, in grat­itude for Har­ry's tip-​off about the drag­ons. There seemed to be few­er Sup­port Cedric Dig­gory! badges around too. Dra­co Mal­foy, of course, was still quot­ing Ri­ta Skeeter's ar­ti­cle to him at ev­ery pos­si­ble op­por­tu­ni­ty, but he was get­ting few­er and few­er laughs out of it - and just to height­en Har­ry's feel­ing of well-​be­ing, no sto­ry about Ha­grid had ap­peared in the Dai­ly Prophet.

“She didn' seem very int'rest­ed in mag­ical crea­tures, ter tell yeh the truth,” Ha­grid said, when Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione asked him how his in­ter­view with Ri­ta Skeeter had gone dur­ing the last Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures les­son of the term. To their very great re­lief, Ha­grid had giv­en up on di­rect con­tact with the skrewts now, and they were mere­ly shel­ter­ing be­hind his cab­in to­day, sit­ting at a tres­tle ta­ble and prepar­ing a fresh se­lec­tion of food with which to tempt the skrewts.

“She jus' want­ed me ter talk about you, Har­ry,” Ha­grid con­tin­ued in a low voice. “Well, I told her we'd been friends since I went ter fetch yeh from the Durs­leys. 'Nev­er had to tell him off in four years?' she said. 'Nev­er played you up in lessons, has he?' I told her no, an she didn' seem hap­py at all. Yeh'd think she want­ed me to say yeh were hor­ri­ble, Har­ry.”

“'Course she did,” said Har­ry, throw­ing lumps of drag­on liv­er in­to a large met­al bowl and pick­ing up his knife to cut some more. “She can't keep writ­ing about what a trag­ic lit­tle hero I am, it'll get bor­ing.”

“She wants a new an­gle, Ha­grid,” said Ron wise­ly as he shelled sala­man­der eggs. “You were sup­posed to say Har­ry's a mad delin­quent!”

“But he's not!” said Ha­grid, look­ing gen­uine­ly shocked.

“She should've in­ter­viewed Snape,” said Har­ry grim­ly. “He'd give her the goods on me any day. 'Pot­ter has been cross­ing lines ev­er since he first ar­rived at this school.…'”

“Said that, did he?” said Ha­grid, while Ron and Hermione laughed. “Well, yeh might've bent a few rules. Har­ry, bu' yeh're all righ' re­al­ly, aren' you?”

“Cheers, Ha­grid,” said Har­ry, grin­ning.

“You com­ing to this ball thing on Christ­mas Day, Ha­grid?” said Ron.

“Though' I might look in on it, yeah,” said Ha­grid gruffly. “Should be a good do, I reck­on. You'll be openin the dancin', won yeh, Har­ry? Who're you takin'?”

“No one, yet,” said Har­ry, feel­ing him­self go­ing red again. Ha­grid didn't pur­sue the sub­ject.

The last week of term be­came in­creas­ing­ly bois­ter­ous as it pro­gressed. Ru­mors about the Yule Ball were fly­ing ev­ery­where, though Har­ry didn't be­lieve half of them - for in­stance, that Dum­ble­dore had bought eight hun­dred bar­rels of mulled mead from Madam Ros­mer­ta. It seemed to be fact, how­ev­er, that he had booked the Weird Sis­ters. Ex­act­ly who or what the Weird Sis­ters were Har­ry didn't know, nev­er hav­ing had ac­cess to a wiz­ard's wire­less, but he de­duced from the wild ex­cite­ment of those who had grown up lis­ten­ing to the WWN (Wiz­ard­ing Wire­less Net­work) that they were a very fa­mous mu­si­cal group.

Some of the teach­ers, like lit­tle Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, gave up try­ing to teach them much when their minds were so clear­ly else­where; he al­lowed them to play games in his les­son on Wednes­day, and spent most of it talk­ing to Har­ry about the per­fect Sum­mon­ing Charm Har­ry had used dur­ing the first task of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. Oth­er teach­ers were not so gen­er­ous. Noth­ing would ev­er de­flect Pro­fes­sor Binns, for ex­am­ple, from plow­ing on through his notes on gob­lin re­bel­lions - as Binns hadn't let his own death stand in the way of con­tin­uing to teach, they sup­posed a small thing like Christ­mas wasn't go­ing to put him off. It was amaz­ing how he could make even bloody and vi­cious gob­lin ri­ots sound as bor­ing as Per­cy's caul­dron-​bot­tom re­port. Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Moody kept them work­ing un­til the very last sec­ond of their class­es too, and Snape, of course, would no soon­er let them play games in class than adopt Har­ry. Star­ing nas­ti­ly around at them all, he in­formed them that he would be test­ing them on poi­son an­ti­dotes dur­ing the last les­son of the term.

“Evil, he is,” Ron said bit­ter­ly that night in the Gryffind­or com­mon room. “Spring­ing a test on us on the last day. Ru­in­ing the last bit of term with a whole load of study­ing.”

“Mmm…you're not ex­act­ly strain­ing your­self, though, are you?” said Hermione, look­ing at him over the top of her Po­tions notes. Ron was busy build­ing a card cas­tle out of his Ex­plod­ing Snap pack - a much more in­ter­est­ing pas­time than with Mug­gle cards, be­cause of the chance that the whole thing would blow up at any sec­ond.

“It's Christ­mas, Hermione,” said Har­ry lazi­ly; he was reread­ing Fly­ing with the Can­nons for the tenth time in an arm­chair near the fire.

Hermione looked severe­ly over at him too. “I'd have thought you'd be do­ing some­thing con­struc­tive, Har­ry, even if you don't want to learn your an­ti­dotes!”

“Like what?” Har­ry said as he watched Joey Jenk­ins of the Can­nons belt a Bludger to­ward a Bal­ly­cas­tle Bats Chas­er.

“That egg!” Hermione hissed.

“Come on, Hermione, I've got till Febru­ary the twen­ty-​fourth,” Har­ry said.

He had put the gold­en egg up­stairs in his trunk and hadn't opened it since the cel­ebra­tion par­ty af­ter the first task. There were still two and a half months to go un­til he need­ed to know what all the screechy wail­ing meant, af­ter all.

“But it might take weeks to work it out!” said Hermione. “You're go­ing to look a re­al id­iot if ev­ery­one else knows what the next task is and you don't!”

“Leave him alone, Hermione, he's earned a bit of a break,” said Ron, and he placed the last two cards on top of the cas­tle and the whole lot blew up, singe­ing his eye­brows.

“Nice look, Ron…go well with your dress robes, that will.”

It was Fred and George. They sat down at the ta­ble with Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione as Ron felt how much dam­age had been done.

“Ron, can we bor­row Pig­wid­geon?” George asked.

“No, he's off de­liv­er­ing a let­ter,” said Ron. “Why?”

“Be­cause George wants to in­vite him to the ball,” said Fred sar­cas­ti­cal­ly.

“Be­cause we want to send a let­ter, you stupid great prat,” said George.

“Who d'you two keep writ­ing to, eh?” said Ron.

“Nose out, Ron, or I'll burn that for you too,” said Fred, wav­ing his wand threat­en­ing­ly. “So…you lot got dates for the ball yet?”

“Nope,” said Ron.

“Well, you'd bet­ter hur­ry up, mate, or all the good ones will be gone,” said Fred.

“Who're you go­ing with, then?” said Ron.

“An­geli­na,” said Fred prompt­ly, with­out a trace of em­bar­rass­ment.

“What?” said Ron, tak­en aback. “You've al­ready asked her?”

“Good point,” said Fred. He turned his head and called across the com­mon room, “Oi! An­geli­na!”

An­geli­na, who had been chat­ting with Ali­cia Spin­net near the fire, looked over at him.

“What?” she called back.

“Want to come to the ball with me?”

An­geli­na gave Fred an ap­prais­ing sort of look.

“All right, then,” she said, and she turned back to Ali­cia and car­ried on chat­ting with a bit of a grin on her face.

“There you go,” said Fred to Har­ry and Ron, “piece of cake.”

He got to his feet, yawn­ing, and said, “We'd bet­ter use a school owl then, George, come on.…”

They left. Ron stopped feel­ing his eye­brows and looked across the smol­der­ing wreck of his card cas­tle at Har­ry.

“We should get a move on, you know…ask some­one. He's right. We don't want to end up with a pair of trolls.”

Hermione let out a sput­ter of in­dig­na­tion.

“A pair of…what, ex­cuse me?”

“Well - you know,” said Ron, shrug­ging. “I'd rather go alone than with - with Eloise Midgen, say.”

“Her ac­ne's loads bet­ter late­ly - and she's re­al­ly nice!”

“Her nose is off-​cen­ter,” said Ron.

“Oh I see,” Hermione said, bristling. “So ba­si­cal­ly, you're go­ing to take the best-​look­ing girl who'll have you, even if she's com­plete­ly hor­ri­ble?”

“Er - yeah, that sounds about right,” said Ron.

“I'm go­ing to bed,” Hermione snapped, and she swept off to­ward the girls' stair­case with­out an­oth­er word.



The Hog­warts staff, demon­strat­ing a con­tin­ued de­sire to im­press the vis­itors from Beaux­ba­tons and Durm­strang, seemed de­ter­mined to show the cas­tle at its best this Christ­mas. When the dec­ora­tions went up. Har­ry no­ticed that they were the most stun­ning he had yet seen in­side the school. Ev­er­last­ing ici­cles had been at­tached to the ban­is­ters of the mar­ble stair­case; the usu­al twelve Christ­mas trees in the Great Hall were be­decked with ev­ery­thing from lu­mi­nous hol­ly berries to re­al, hoot­ing, gold­en owls, and the suits of ar­mor had all been be­witched to sing car­ols when­ev­er any­one passed them. It was quite some­thing to hear “O Come, All Ye Faith­ful” sung by an emp­ty hel­met that on­ly knew half the words. Sev­er­al times, Filch the care­tak­er had to ex­tract Peeves from in­side the ar­mor, where he had tak­en to hid­ing, fill­ing in the gaps in the songs with lyrics of his own in­ven­tion, all of which were very rude.

And still. Har­ry hadn't asked Cho to the ball. He and Ron were get­ting very ner­vous now, though as Har­ry point­ed out, Ron would look much less stupid than he would with­out a part­ner; Har­ry was sup­posed to be start­ing the danc­ing with the oth­er cham­pi­ons.

“I sup­pose there's al­ways Moan­ing Myr­tle,” he said gloomi­ly, re­fer­ring to the ghost who haunt­ed the girls' toi­lets on the sec­ond floor.

“Har­ry - we've just got to grit our teeth and do it,” said Ron on Fri­day morn­ing, in a tone that sug­gest­ed they were plan­ning the storm­ing of an im­preg­nable fortress. “When we get back to the com­mon room tonight, we'll both have part­ners - agreed?”

“Er…okay,” said Har­ry.

But ev­ery time he glimpsed Cho that day - dur­ing break, and then lunchtime, and once on the way to His­to­ry of Mag­ic - she was sur­round­ed by friends. Didn't she ev­er go any­where alone? Could he per­haps am­bush her as she was go­ing in­to a bath­room? But no - she even seemed to go there with an es­cort of four or five girls. Yet if he didn't do it soon, she was bound to have been asked by some­body else.

He found it hard to con­cen­trate on Snape's Po­tions test, and con­se­quent­ly for­got to add the key in­gre­di­ent - a be­zoar - mean­ing that he re­ceived bot­tom marks. He didn't care, though; he was too busy screw­ing up his courage for what he was about to do. When the bell rang, he grabbed his bag, and hur­ried to the dun­geon door.

“I'll meet you at din­ner,” he said to Ron and Hermione, and he dashed off up­stairs.

He'd just have to ask Cho for a pri­vate word, that was all.…He hur­ried off through the packed cor­ri­dors look­ing for her, and (rather soon­er than he had ex­pect­ed) he found her, emerg­ing from a De­fense Against the Dark Arts les­son.

“Er - Cho? Could I have a word with you?”

Gig­gling should be made il­le­gal. Har­ry thought fu­ri­ous­ly, as all the girls around Cho start­ed do­ing it. She didn't, though. She said, “Okay,” and fol­lowed him out of earshot oth­er class­mates.

Har­ry turned to look at her and his stom­ach gave a weird lurch as though he had missed a step go­ing down­stairs.

“Er,” he said.

He couldn't ask her. He couldn't. But he had to. Cho stood there look­ing puz­zled, watch­ing him. The words came out be­fore Har­ry had quite got his tongue around them.

“Wan­gob­all­wime?”

“Sor­ry?” said Cho.

“D'you - d'you want to go to the ball with me?” said Har­ry. Why did he have to go red now? Why?

“Oh!” said Cho, and she went red too. “Oh Har­ry, I'm re­al­ly sor­ry,” and she tru­ly looked it. “I've al­ready said I'll go with some­one else.”

“Oh,” said Har­ry.

It was odd; a mo­ment be­fore his in­sides had been writhing like snakes, but sud­den­ly he didn't seem to have any in­sides at all.

“Oh okay,” he said, “no prob­lem.”

“I'm re­al­ly sor­ry,” she said again.

“That's okay,” said Har­ry.

They stood there look­ing at each oth­er, and then Cho said, “Well -”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry.

“Well, 'bye,” said Cho, still very red. She walked away.

Har­ry called af­ter her, be­fore he could stop him­self.

“Who're you go­ing with?”

“Oh - Cedric,” she said. “Cedric Dig­gory.”

“Oh right,” said Har­ry.

His in­sides had come back again. It felt as though they had been filled with lead in their ab­sence.

Com­plete­ly for­get­ting about din­ner, he walked slow­ly back up to Gryffind­or Tow­er, Cho's voice echo­ing in his ears with ev­ery step he took. “Cedric - Cedric Dig­gory.” He had been start­ing to quite like Cedric - pre­pared to over­look the fact that he had once beat­en him at Quid­ditch, and was hand­some, and pop­ular, and near­ly ev­ery­one's fa­vorite cham­pi­on. Now he sud­den­ly re­al­ized that Cedric was in fact a use­less pret­ty boy who didn't have enough brains to fill an eggcup.

“Fairy lights,” he said dul­ly to the Fat La­dy - the pass­word had been changed the pre­vi­ous day.

“Yes, in­deed, dear!” she trilled, straight­en­ing her new tin­sel hair band as she swung for­ward to ad­mit him.

En­ter­ing the com­mon room, Har­ry looked around, and to his sur­prise he saw Ron sit­ting ashen-​faced in a dis­tant cor­ner. Gin­ny was sit­ting with him, talk­ing to him in what seemed to be a low, sooth­ing voice.

“What's up, Ron?” said Har­ry, join­ing them.

Ron looked up at Har­ry, a sort of blind hor­ror in his face.

“Why did I do it?” he said wild­ly. "I don't know what made me do it!

“What?” said Har­ry.

“He - er - just asked Fleur Dela­cour to go to the ball with him,” said Gin­ny. She looked as though she was fight­ing back a smile, but she kept pat­ting Ron's arm sym­pa­thet­ical­ly.

"You what?' said Har­ry.

“I don't know what made me do it!” Ron gasped again. “What was I play­ing at? There were peo­ple - all around - I've gone mad - ev­ery­one watch­ing! I was just walk­ing past her in the en­trance hall - she was stand­ing there talk­ing to Dig­gory - and it sort of came over me - and I asked her!”

Ron moaned and put his face in his hands. He kept talk­ing, though the words were bare­ly dis­tin­guish­able.

“She looked at me like I was a sea slug or some­thing. Didn't even an­swer. And then - I dun­no - I just sort of came to my sens­es and ran for it.”

“She's part veela,” said Har­ry. “You were right - her grand­moth­er was one. It wasn't your fault, I bet you just walked past when she was turn­ing on the old charm for Dig­gory and got a blast of it - but she was wast­ing her time. He's go­ing with Cho Chang.”

Ron looked up.

“I asked her to go with me just now,” Har­ry said dul­ly, “and she told me.”

Gin­ny had sud­den­ly stopped smil­ing.

“This is mad,” said Ron. “We're the on­ly ones left who haven't got any­one - well, ex­cept Neville. Hey - guess who he asked? Hermione!”

“What?” said Har­ry, com­plete­ly dis­tract­ed by this startling news.

“Yeah, I know!” said Ron, some of the col­or com­ing back in­to his face as he start­ed to laugh. “He told me af­ter Po­tions! Said she's al­ways been re­al­ly nice, help­ing him out with work and stuff- but she told him she was al­ready go­ing with some­one. Ha! As if! She just didn't want to go with Neville…I mean, who would?”

“Don't!” said Gin­ny, an­noyed. “Don't laugh -”

Just then Hermione climbed in through the por­trait hole.

“Why weren't you two at din­ner?” she said, com­ing over to join them.

“Be­cause - oh shut up laugh­ing, you two - be­cause they've both just been turned down by girls they asked to the ball!” said Gin­ny.

That shut Har­ry and Ron up.

“Thanks a bunch, Gin­ny,” said Ron sourly.

“All the good-​look­ing ones tak­en, Ron?” said Hermione lofti­ly. “Eloise Midgen start­ing to look quite pret­ty now, is she? Well, I'm sure you'll find some­one some­where who'll have you.”

But Ron was star­ing at Hermione as though sud­den­ly see­ing her in a whole new light.

“Hermione, Neville's right - you are a girl.…”

“Oh well spot­ted,” she said acid­ly.

“Well - you can come with one of us!”

“No, I can't,” snapped Hermione.

“Oh come on,” he said im­pa­tient­ly, “we need part­ners, we're go­ing to look re­al­ly stupid if we haven't got any, ev­ery­one else has…”

“I can't come with you,” said Hermione, now blush­ing, “be­cause I'm al­ready go­ing with some­one.”

“No, you're not!” said Ron. “You just said that to get rid of Neville!”

“Oh did I?” said Hermione, and her eyes flashed dan­ger­ous­ly. “Just be­cause it's tak­en you three years to no­tice, Ron, doesn't mean no one else has spot­ted I'm a girl!”

Ron stared at her. Then he grinned again.

“Okay, okay, we know you're a girl,” he said. “That do? Will you come now?”

“I've al­ready told you!” Hermione said very an­gri­ly. “I'm go­ing with some­one else!”

And she stormed off to­ward the girls' dor­mi­to­ries again.

“She's ly­ing,” said Ron flat­ly, watch­ing her go.

“She's not,” said Gin­ny qui­et­ly.

“Who is it then?” said Ron sharply.

“I'm not telling you, it's her busi­ness,” said Gin­ny.

“Right,” said Ron, who looked ex­treme­ly put out, “this is get­ting stupid. Gin­ny, you can go with Har­ry, and I'll just -”

“I can't,” said Gin­ny, and she went scar­let too. “I'm go­ing with - with Neville. He asked me when Hermione said no, and I thought…well…I'm not go­ing to be able to go oth­er­wise, I'm not in fourth year.” She looked ex­treme­ly mis­er­able. “I think I'll go and have din­ner,” she said, and she got up and walked off to the por­trait hole, her head bowed.

Ron gog­gled at Har­ry.

“What's got in­to them?” he de­mand­ed.

But Har­ry had just seen Par­vati and Laven­der come in through the por­trait hole. The time had come for dras­tic ac­tion.

“Wait here,” he said to Ron, and he stood up, walked straight up to Par­vati, and said, “Par­vati? Will you go to the ball with me?”

Par­vati went in­to a fit of gig­gles. Har­ry wait­ed for them to sub­side, his fin­gers crossed in the pock­et of his robes.

“Yes, all right then,” she said fi­nal­ly, blush­ing fu­ri­ous­ly.

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, in re­lief. “Laven­der - will you go with Ron?”

“She's go­ing with Sea­mus,” said Par­vati, and the pair of them gig­gled hard­er than ev­er.

Har­ry sighed.

“Can't you think of any­one who'd go with Ron?” he said, low­er­ing his voice so that Ron wouldn't hear.

“What about Hermione Granger?” said Par­vati.

“She's go­ing with some­one else.”

Par­vati looked as­ton­ished.

“Ooooh - who?” she said keen­ly.

Har­ry shrugged. “No idea,” he said. “So what about Ron?”

“Well…” said Par­vati slow­ly, “I sup­pose my sis­ter might…Pad­ma, you know…in Raven­claw. I'll ask her if you like.”

“Yeah, that would be great,” said Har­ry. “Let me know, will you?”

And he went back over to Ron, feel­ing that this ball was a lot more trou­ble than it was worth, and hop­ing very much that Pad­ma Patil's nose was dead cen­ter.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE


THE YULE BALL



D es­pite the very heavy load of home­work that the fourth years had been giv­en for the hol­idays. Har­ry was in no mood to work when term end­ed, and spent the week lead­ing up to Christ­mas en­joy­ing him­self as ful­ly as pos­si­ble along with ev­ery­one else. Gryffind­or Tow­er was hard­ly less crowd­ed now than dur­ing term-​time; it seemed to have shrunk slight­ly too, as its in­hab­itants were be­ing so much row­di­er than usu­al. Fred and George had had a great suc­cess with their Ca­nary Creams, and for the first cou­ple of days of the hol­idays, peo­ple kept burst­ing in­to feath­er all over the place. Be­fore long, how­ev­er, all the Gryffind­ors had learned to treat food any­body else of­fered them with ex­treme cau­tion, in case it had a Ca­nary Cream con­cealed in the cen­ter, and George con­fid­ed to Har­ry that he and Fred were now work­ing on de­vel­op­ing some­thing else. Har­ry made a men­tal note nev­er to ac­cept so much as a crisp from Fred and George in fu­ture. He still hadn't for­got­ten Dud­ley and the Ton-​Tongue Tof­fee.

Snow was falling thick­ly up­on the cas­tle and its grounds now. The pale blue Beaux­ba­tons car­riage looked like a large, chilly, frost­ed pump­kin next to the iced gin­ger­bread house that was Ha­grid's cab­in, while the Durm­strang ship's port­holes were glazed with ice, the rig­ging white with frost. The house-​elves down in the kitchen were out­do­ing them­selves with a se­ries of rich, warm­ing stews and sa­vory pud­dings, and on­ly Fleur Dela­cour seemed to be able to find any­thing to com­plain about.

“It is too 'eavy, all zis 'Og­warts food,” they heard her say­ing grumpi­ly as they left the Great Hall be­hind her one evening (Ron skulk­ing be­hind Har­ry, keen not to be spot­ted by Fleur). “I will not fit in­to my dress robes!”

“Oooh there's a tragedy,” Hermione snapped as Fleur went out in­to the en­trance hall. “She re­al­ly thinks a lot of her­self, that one, doesn't she?”

“Hermione - who are you go­ing to the ball with?” said Ron.

He kept spring­ing this ques­tion on her, hop­ing to star­tle her in­to a re­sponse by ask­ing it when she least ex­pect­ed it. How­ev­er, Hermione mere­ly frowned and said, “I'm not telling you, you'll just make fun of me.”

“You're jok­ing, Weasley!” said Mal­foy, be­hind them. “You're not telling me some­one's asked that to the ball? Not the long-​mo­lared Mud­blood?”

Har­ry and Ron both whipped around, but Hermione said loud­ly, wav­ing to some­body over Mal­foy's shoul­der, “Hel­lo, Pro­fes­sor Moody!”

Mal­foy went pale and jumped back­ward, look­ing wild­ly around for Moody, but he was still up at the staff ta­ble, fin­ish­ing his stew.

“Twitchy lit­tle fer­ret, aren't you, Mal­foy?” said Hermione scathing­ly, and she, Har­ry, and Ron went up the mar­ble stair­case laugh­ing hearti­ly.

“Hermione,” said Ron, look­ing side­ways at her, sud­den­ly frown­ing, “your teeth…”

“What about them?” she said.

“Well, they're dif­fer­ent…I've just no­ticed.…”

“Of course they are - did you ex­pect me to keep those fangs Mal­foy gave me?”

“No, I mean, they're dif­fer­ent to how they were be­fore he put that hex on you.…They're all…straight and - and nor­mal-​sized.”

Hermione sud­den­ly smiled very mis­chievous­ly, and Har­ry no­ticed it too: It was a very dif­fer­ent smile from the one he re­mem­bered.

“Well…when I went up to Madam Pom­frey to get them shrunk, she held up a mir­ror and told me to stop her when they were back to how they nor­mal­ly were,” she said. “And I just…let her car­ry on a bit.” She smiled even more wide­ly. “Mum and Dad won't be too pleased. I've been try­ing to per­suade them to let me shrink them for ages, but they want­ed me to car­ry on with my braces. You know, they're den­tists, they just don't think teeth and mag­ic should - look! Pig­wid­geon's back!”

Ron's tiny owl was twit­ter­ing mad­ly on the top of the ici­cle-​laden ban­is­ters, a scroll of parch­ment tied to his leg. Peo­ple pass­ing him were point­ing and laugh­ing, and a group of third-​year girls paused and said, “Oh look at the wee­ny owl! Isn't he cute?”

Stupid lit­tle feath­ery git!“ Ron hissed, hur­ry­ing up the stairs and snatch­ing up Pig­wid­geon. ”You bring let­ters to the ad­dressee! You don't hang around show­ing off!"

Pig­wid­geon hoot­ed hap­pi­ly, his head pro­trud­ing over Ron's fist. The third-​year girls all looked very shocked.

“Clear off!” Ron snapped at them, wav­ing the fist hold­ing Pig­wid­geon, who hoot­ed more hap­pi­ly than ev­er as he soared through the air. “Here - take it, Har­ry,” Ron added in an un­der­tone as the third-​year girls scut­tled away look­ing scan­dal­ized. He pulled Sir­ius's re­ply off Pig­wid­geons leg. Har­ry pock­et­ed it, and they hur­ried back to Gryffind­or Tow­er to read it.

Ev­ery­one in the com­mon room was much too busy in let­ting off more hol­iday steam to ob­serve what any­one else was up to. Ron, Har­ry, and Hermione sat apart from ev­ery­one else by a dark win­dow that was grad­ual­ly fill­ing up with snow, and Har­ry read out:



Dear Har­ry,

Con­grat­ula­tions on get­ting past the Horn­tail. Who­ev­er put your name in that gob­let shouldn't be feel­ing too hap­py right now! I was go­ing to sug­gest a Con­junc­tiv­itus Curse, as a drag­on's eyes are its weak­est point - “That's what Krum did!” Hermione whis­pered - but your way was bet­ter, I'm im­pressed.

Don't get com­pla­cent, though. Har­ry. You've on­ly done one task; who­ev­er put you in for the tour­na­ment's got plen­ty more op­por­tu­ni­ty if they're try­ing to hurt you. Keep your eyes open -par­tic­ular­ly when the per­son we dis­cussed is around and con­cen­trate on keep­ing your­self out of trou­ble.

Keep in touch, I still want to hear about any­thing un­usu­al.

Sir­ius



“He sounds ex­act­ly like Moody,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly, tuck­ing the let­ter away again in­side his robes. “'Con­stant vig­ilance!' You'd think I walk around with my eyes shut, bang­ing off the walls.…”

“But he's right, Har­ry,” said Hermione, “you have still got two tasks to do. You re­al­ly ought to have a look at that egg, you know, and start work­ing out what it means.…”

“Hermione, he's got ages!” snapped Ron. “Want a game of chess, Har­ry?”

“Yeah, okay,” said Har­ry. Then, spot­ting the look on Hermione's face, he said, “Come on, how'm I sup­posed to con­cen­trate with all this noise go­ing on? I won't even be able to hear the egg over this lot.”

“Oh I sup­pose not,” she sighed, and she sat down to watch their chess match, which cul­mi­nat­ed in an ex­cit­ing check­mate of Ron's, in­volv­ing a cou­ple of reck­less­ly brave pawns and a very vi­olent bish­op.



Har­ry awoke very sud­den­ly on Christ­mas Day. Won­der­ing what had caused his abrupt re­turn to con­scious­ness, he opened his eyes, and saw some­thing with very large, round, green eyes star­ing back at him in the dark­ness, so close they were al­most nose to nose.

“Dob­by!” Har­ry yelled, scram­bling away from the elf so fast he al­most fell out of bed. “Don't do that!”

“Dob­by is sor­ry, sir!” squeaked Dob­by anx­ious­ly, jump­ing back­ward with his long fin­gers over his mouth. “Dob­by is on­ly want­ing to wish Har­ry Pot­ter 'Mer­ry Christ­mas' and bring him a present, Sir! Har­ry Pot­ter did say Dob­by could come and see him some­times, sir!”

It's okay,“ said Har­ry, still breath­ing rather faster than usu­al, while his heart rate re­turned to nor­mal. ”Just - just prod me or some­thing in fu­ture, all right, don't bend over me like that.…"

Har­ry pulled back the cur­tains around his four-​poster, took his glass­es from his bed­side ta­ble, and put them on. His yell had awo­ken Ron, Sea­mus, Dean, and Neville. All of them were peer­ing through the gaps in their own hang­ings, heavy-​eyed and tou­sle-​haired.

“Some­one at­tack­ing you, Har­ry?” Sea­mus asked sleep­ily.

“No, it's just Dob­by,” Har­ry mut­tered. “Go back to sleep.”

“Nah…presents!” said Sea­mus, spot­ting the large pile at the foot of his bed. Ron, Dean, and Neville de­cid­ed that now they were awake they might as well get down to some present-​open­ing too. Har­ry turned back to Dob­by, who was now stand­ing ner­vous­ly next to Har­ry's bed, still look­ing wor­ried that he had up­set Har­ry. There was a Christ­mas bauble tied to the loop on top of his tea cozy.

“Can Dob­by give Har­ry Pot­ter his present?” he squeaked ten­ta­tive­ly.

“'Course you can,” said Har­ry. “Er…I've got some­thing for you too.”

It was a lie; he hadn't bought any­thing for Dob­by at all, but he quick­ly opened his trunk and pulled out a par­tic­ular­ly knob­bly rolled-​up pair of socks. They were his old­est and foulest, mus­tard yel­low, and had once be­longed to Un­cle Ver­non. The rea­son they were ex­tra-​knob­bly was that Har­ry had been us­ing them to cush­ion his Sneako­scope for over a year now. He pulled out the Sneako-​scope and hand­ed the socks to Dob­by, say­ing, “Sor­ry, I for­got to wrap them…”

But Dob­by was ut­ter­ly de­light­ed.

“Socks are Dob­by's fa­vorite, fa­vorite clothes, sir!” he said, rip­ping off his odd ones and pulling on Un­cle Ver­non's. “I has sev­en now, sir.…But sir…” he said, his eyes widen­ing, hav­ing pulled both socks up to their high­est ex­tent, so that they reached to the bot­tom of his shorts, “they has made a mis­take in the shop, Har­ry Pot­ter, they is giv­ing you two the same!”

“Ah, no, Har­ry, how come you didn't spot that?” said Ron, grin­ning over from his own bed, which was now strewn with wrap­ping pa­per. “Tell you what, Dob­by - here you go - take these two, and you can mix them up prop­er­ly. And here's your sweater.”

He threw Dob­by a pair of vi­olet socks he had just un­wrapped, and the hand-​knit­ted sweater Mrs. Weasley had sent, Dob­by looked quite over­whelmed.

“Sir is very kind!” he squeaked, his eyes brim­ming with tears again, bow­ing deeply to Ron. “Dob­by knew sir must be a great wiz­ard, for he is Har­ry Pot­ter's great­est friend, but Dob­by did not know that he was al­so as gen­er­ous of spir­it, as no­ble, as self­less -”

“They're on­ly socks,” said Ron, who had gone slight­ly pink around the ears, though he looked rather pleased all the same. “Wow, Har­ry -” He had just opened Har­ry's present, a Chud­ley Can­non hat. “Cool!” He jammed it on­to his head, where it clashed hor­ri­bly with his hair.

Dob­by now hand­ed Har­ry a small pack­age, which turned out to be - socks.

“Dob­by is mak­ing them him­self, sir!” the elf said hap­pi­ly. “He is buy­ing the wool out of his wages, sir!”

The left sock was bright red and had a pat­tern of broom­sticks up­on it; the right sock was green with a pat­tern of Snitch­es.

“They're…they're re­al­ly…well, thanks, Dob­by,” said Har­ry, and he pulled them on, caus­ing Dob­by's eyes to leak with hap­pi­ness again.

“Dob­by must go now, sir, we is al­ready mak­ing Christ­mas din­ner in the kitchens!” said Dob­by, and he hur­ried out of the dor­mi­to­ry, wav­ing good-​bye to Ron and the oth­ers as he passed.

Har­ry's oth­er presents were much more sat­is­fac­to­ry than Dob­by's odd socks - with the ob­vi­ous ex­cep­tion of the Durs­leys', which con­sist­ed of a sin­gle tis­sue, an all-​time low - Har­ry sup­posed they too were re­mem­ber ing the Ton-​Tongue Tof­fee. Hermione had giv­en Har­ry a book called Quid­ditch Teams of Britain and Ire­land; Ron, a bulging bag of Dung­bombs; Sir­ius, a handy penknife with at­tach­ments to un­lock any lock and un­do any knot; and Ha­grid, a vast box of sweets in­clud­ing all Har­ry's fa­vorites: Bertie Bott's Ev­ery Fla­vor Beans, Choco­late Frogs, Drooble's Best Blow­ing Gum, and Fizzing Whizbees. There was al­so, of course, Mrs. Weasley's usu­al pack­age, in­clud­ing a new sweater (green, with a pic­ture of a drag­on on it - Har­ry sup­posed Char­lie had told her all about the Horn­tail), and a large quan­ti­ty of home­made mince pies.

Har­ry and Ron met up with Hermione in the com­mon room, and they went down to break­fast to­geth­er. They spent most of the morn­ing in Gryffind­or Tow­er, where ev­ery­one was en­joy­ing their presents, then re­turned to the Great Hall for a mag­nif­icent lunch, which in­clud­ed at least a hun­dred turkeys and Christ­mas pud­dings, and large piles of Crib­bage's Wiz­ard­ing Crack­ers.

They went out on­to the grounds in the af­ter­noon; the snow was un­touched ex­cept for the deep chan­nels made by the Durm­strang and Beaux­ba­tons stu­dents on their way up to the cas­tle. Hermione chose to watch Har­ry and the Weasleys' snow­ball fight rather than join in, and at five o'clock said she was go­ing back up­stairs to get ready for the ball.

“What, you need three hours?” said Ron, look­ing at her in­cred­ulous­ly and pay­ing for his lapse in con­cen­tra­tion when a large snow­ball, thrown by George, hit him hard on the side of the head. “Who're you go­ing with?” he yelled af­ter Hermione, but she just waved and dis­ap­peared up the stone steps in­to the cas­tle.

There was no Christ­mas tea to­day, as the ball in­clud­ed a feast, so at sev­en o'clock, when it had be­come hard to aim prop­er­ly, the oth­ers aban­doned their snow­ball fight and trooped back to the com­mon room. The Fat La­dy was sit­ting in her frame with her friend Vi­olet from down­stairs, both of them ex­treme­ly tip­sy, emp­ty box­es of choco­late liqueurs lit­ter­ing the bot­tom oth­er pic­ture.

“Lairy fights, that's the one!” she gig­gled when they gave the pass­word, and she swung for­ward to let them in­side.

Har­ry, Ron, Sea­mus, Dean, and Neville changed in­to their dress robes up in their dor­mi­to­ry, all of them look­ing very self-​con­scious, but none as much as Ron, who sur­veyed him­self in the long mir­ror in the cor­ner with an ap­palled look on his face. There was just no get­ting around the fact that his robes looked more like a dress than any­thing else. In a des­per­ate at­tempt to make them look more man­ly, he used a Sev­er­ing Charm on the ruff and cuffs. It worked fair­ly well; at least he was now lace-​free, al­though he hadn't done a very neat job, and the edges still looked de­press­ing­ly frayed as the boys set off down­stairs.

“I still can't work out how you two got the best-​look­ing girls in the year,” mut­tered Dean.

“An­imal mag­netism,” said Ron gloomi­ly, pulling stray threads out of his cuffs.

The com­mon room looked strange, full of peo­ple wear­ing dif­fer­ent col­ors in­stead of the usu­al mass of black. Par­vati was wait­ing for Har­ry at the foot of the stairs. She looked very pret­ty in­deed, in robes of shock­ing pink, with her long dark plait braid­ed with gold, and gold bracelets glim­mer­ing at her wrists. Har­ry was re­lieved to see that she wasn't gig­gling.

“You - er - look nice,” he said awk­ward­ly.

“Thanks,” she said. “Pad­ma's go­ing to meet you in the en­trance hall,” she added to Ron.

“Right,” said Ron, look­ing around. “Where's Hermione?”

Par­vati shrugged. “Shall we go down then, Har­ry?”

“Okay,” said Har­ry, wish­ing he could just stay in the com­mon room. Fred winked at Har­ry as he passed him on the way out of the por­trait hole.

The en­trance hall was packed with stu­dents too, all milling around wait­ing for eight o'clock, when the doors to the Great Hall would be thrown open. Those peo­ple who were meet­ing part­ners from dif­fer­ent Hous­es were edg­ing through the crowd try­ing to find one an­oth­er. Par­vati found her sis­ter, Pad­ma, and led her over to Har­ry and Ron.

“Hi,” said Pad­ma, who was look­ing just as pret­ty as Par­vati in robes of bright turquoise. She didn't look too en­thu­si­as­tic about hav­ing Ron as a part­ner, though; her dark eyes lin­gered on the frayed neck and sleeves of his dress robes as she looked him up and down.

“Hi,” said Ron, not look­ing at her, but star­ing around at the crowd. “Oh no…”

He bent his knees slight­ly to hide be­hind Har­ry, be­cause Fleur Dela­cour was pass­ing, look­ing stun­ning in robes of sil­ver-​gray satin, and ac­com­pa­nied by the Raven­claw Quid­ditch cap­tain, Roger Davies. When they had dis­ap­peared, Ron stood straight again and stared over the heads of the crowd.

“Where is Hermione?” he said again.

A group of Slytherins came up the steps from their dun­geon com­mon room. Mal­foy was in front; he was wear­ing dress robes of black vel­vet with a high col­lar, which in Har­ry's opin­ion made him look like a vicar. Pan­sy Parkin­son in very frilly robes of pale pink was clutch­ing Mal­foy's arm. Crabbe and Goyle were both wear­ing green; they re­sem­bled moss-​col­ored boul­ders, and nei­ther of them, Har­ry was pleased to see, had man­aged to find a part­ner.

The oak front doors opened, and ev­ery­one turned to look as the Durm­strang stu­dents en­tered with Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff. Krum was at the front of the par­ty, ac­com­pa­nied by a pret­ty girl in blue robes Har­ry didn't know. Over their heads he saw that an area of lawn right in front of the cas­tle had been trans­formed in­to a sort of grot­to full of fairy lights - mean­ing hun­dreds of ac­tu­al liv­ing fairies were sit­ting in the rose­bush­es that had been con­jured there, and flut­ter­ing over the stat­ues of what seemed to be Fa­ther Christ­mas and his rein­deer.

Then Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's voice called, “Cham­pi­ons over here, please!”

Par­vati read­just­ed her ban­gles, beam­ing; she and Har­ry said, “See you in a minute” to Ron and Pad­ma and walked for­ward, the chat­ter­ing crowd part­ing to let them through. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was wear­ing dress robes of red tar­tan and had ar­ranged a rather ug­ly wreath of this­tles around the brim oth­er hat, told them to wait on one side of the doors while ev­ery­one else went in­side; they were to en­ter the Great Hall in pro­ces­sion when the rest of the stu­dents had sat down. Fleur Dela­cour and Roger Davies sta­tioned them­selves near­est the doors; Davies looked so stunned by his good for­tune in hav­ing Fleur for a part­ner that he could hard­ly take his eyes off her. Cedric and Cho were close to Har­ry too; he looked away from them so he wouldn't have to talk to them. His eyes fell in­stead on the girl next to Krum. His jaw dropped.

It was Hermione.

But she didn't look like Hermione at all. She had done some­thing with her hair; it was no longer bushy but sleek and shiny, and twist­ed up in­to an el­egant knot at the back of her head. She was wear­ing robes made of a floaty, peri­win­kle-​blue ma­te­ri­al, and she was hold­ing her­self dif­fer­ent­ly, some­how - or maybe it was mere­ly the ab­sence of the twen­ty or so books she usu­al­ly had slung over her back. She was al­so smil­ing - rather ner­vous­ly, it was true - but the re­duc­tion in the size of her front teeth was more no­tice­able than ev­er; Har­ry couldn't un­der­stand how he hadn't spot­ted it be­fore.

“Hi, Har­ry!” she said. “Hi, Par­vati!”

Par­vati was gaz­ing at Hermione in un­flat­ter­ing dis­be­lief. She wasn't the on­ly one ei­ther; when the doors to the Great Hall opened, Krum's fan club from the li­brary stalked past, throw­ing Hermione looks of deep­est loathing. Pan­sy Parkin­son gaped at her as she walked by with Mal­foy, and even he didn't seem to be able to find an in­sult to throw at her. Ron, how­ev­er, walked right past Hermione with­out look­ing at her.

Once ev­ery­one else was set­tled in the Hall, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told the cham­pi­ons and their part­ners to get in line in pairs and to fol­low her. They did so, and ev­ery­one in the Great Hall ap­plaud­ed as they en­tered and start­ed walk­ing up to­ward a large round ta­ble at the top of the Hall, where the judges were sit­ting.

The walls of the Hall had all been cov­ered in sparkling sil­ver frost, with hun­dreds of gar­lands of mistle­toe and ivy cross­ing the star­ry black ceil­ing. The House ta­bles had van­ished; in­stead, there were about a hun­dred small­er, lantern-​lit ones, each seat­ing about a dozen peo­ple.

Har­ry con­cen­trat­ed on not trip­ping over his feet. Par­vati seemed to be en­joy­ing her­self; she was beam­ing around at ev­ery­body, steer­ing Har­ry so force­ful­ly that he felt as though he were a show dog she was putting through its paces. He caught sight of Ron and Pad­ma as he neared the top ta­ble. Ron was watch­ing Hermione pass with nar­rowed eyes. Pad­ma was look­ing sulky.

Dum­ble­dore smiled hap­pi­ly as the cham­pi­ons ap­proached the top ta­ble, but Karkaroff wore an ex­pres­sion re­mark­ably like Ron's as he watched Krum and Hermione draw near­er. Lu­do Bag­man, tonight in robes of bright pur­ple with large yel­low stars, was clap­ping as en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly as any of the stu­dents; and Madame Maxime, who had changed her usu­al uni­form of black satin for a flow­ing gown of laven­der silk, was ap­plaud­ing them po­lite­ly. But Mr. Crouch, Har­ry sud­den­ly re­al­ized, was not there. The fifth seat at the ta­ble was oc­cu­pied by Per­cy Weasley.

When the cham­pi­ons and their part­ners reached the ta­ble, Per­cy drew out the emp­ty chair be­side him, star­ing point­ed­ly at Har­ry. Har­ry took the hint and sat down next to Per­cy, who was wear­ing brand-​new, navy-​blue dress robes and an ex­pres­sion of such smug­ness that Har­ry thought it ought to be fined.

“I've been pro­mot­ed,” Per­cy said be­fore Har­ry could even ask, and from his tone, he might have been an­nounc­ing his elec­tion as supreme ruler of the uni­verse. “I'm now Mr. Crouch's per­son­al as­sis­tant, and I'm here rep­re­sent­ing him.”

“Why didn't he come?” Har­ry asked. He wasn't look­ing for­ward to be­ing lec­tured on caul­dron bot­toms all through din­ner.

“I'm afraid to say Mr. Crouch isn't well, not well at all. Hasn't been right since the World Cup. Hard­ly sur­pris­ing - over­work. He's not as young as he was - though still quite bril­liant, of course, the mind re­mains as great as it ev­er was. But the World Cup was a fi­as­co for the whole Min­istry, and then, Mr. Crouch suf­fered a huge per­son­al shock with the mis­be­hav­ior of that house-​elf of his, Blinky, or what­ev­er she was called. Nat­ural­ly, he dis­missed her im­me­di­ate­ly af­ter­ward, but - well, as I say, he's get­ting on, he needs look­ing af­ter, and I think he's found a def­inite drop in his home com­forts since she left. And then we had the tour­na­ment to ar­range, and the af­ter­math of the Cup to deal with - that re­volt­ing Skeeter wom­an buzzing around - no, poor man, he's hav­ing a well earned, qui­et Christ­mas. I'm just glad he knew he had some­one he could re­ly up­on to take his place.”

Har­ry want­ed very much to ask whether Mr. Crouch had stopped call­ing Per­cy “Weath­er­by” yet, but re­sist­ed the temp­ta­tion.

There was no food as yet on the glit­ter­ing gold­en plates, but small menus were ly­ing in front of each of them. Har­ry picked his up un­cer­tain­ly and looked around - there were no wait­ers. Dum­ble­dore, how­ev­er, looked care­ful­ly down at his own menu, then said very clear­ly to his plate, “Pork chops!”

And pork chops ap­peared. Get­ting the idea, the rest of the ta­ble placed their or­ders with their plates too. Har­ry glanced up at Hermione to see how she felt about this new and more com­pli­cat­ed method of din­ing - sure­ly it meant plen­ty of ex­tra work for the house-​elves? - but for once, Hermione didn't seem to be think­ing about S.P.E.W. She was deep in talk with Vik­tor Krum and hard­ly seemed to no­tice what she was eat­ing.

It now oc­curred to Har­ry that he had nev­er ac­tu­al­ly heard Krum speak be­fore, but he was cer­tain­ly talk­ing now, and very en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly at that.

“Veil, ve have a cas­tle al­so, not as big as this, nor as com­fort­able, I am think­ing,” he was telling Hermione. “Ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit on­ly for mag­ical pur­pos­es. But ve have grounds larg­er even than these - though in vin­ter, ve have very lit­tle day­light, so ve are not en­joy­ing them. But in sum­mer ve are fly­ing ev­ery day, over the lakes and the moun­tains -”

“Now, now, Vik­tor!” said Karkaroff with a laugh that didn't reach his cold eyes, “don't go giv­ing away any­thing else, now, or your charm­ing friend will know ex­act­ly where to find us!”

Dum­ble­dore smiled, his eyes twin­kling. “Ig­or, all this se­cre­cy, one would al­most think you didn't want vis­itors.”

“Well, Dum­ble­dore,” said Karkaroff, dis­play­ing his yel­low­ing teeth to their fullest ex­tent, “we are all pro­tec­tive of our pri­vate do­mains, are we not? Do we not jeal­ous­ly guard the halls of learn­ing that have been en­trust­ed to us? Are we not right to be proud that we alone know our school's se­crets, and right to pro­tect them?”

“Oh I would nev­er dream of as­sum­ing I know all Hog­warts' se­crets, Ig­or,” said Dum­ble­dore am­ica­bly. “On­ly this morn­ing, for in­stance, I took a wrong turn­ing on the way to the bath­room and found my­self in a beau­ti­ful­ly pro­por­tioned room I have nev­er seen be­fore, con­tain­ing a re­al­ly rather mag­nif­icent col­lec­tion of cham­ber pots. When I went back to in­ves­ti­gate more close­ly, I dis­cov­ered that the room had van­ished. But I must keep an eye out for it. Pos­si­bly it is on­ly ac­ces­si­ble at five-​thir­ty in the morn­ing. Or it may on­ly ap­pear at the quar­ter moon - or when the seek­er has an ex­cep­tion­al­ly full blad­der.”

Har­ry snort­ed in­to his plate of goulash. Per­cy frowned, but Har­ry could have sworn Dum­ble­dore had giv­en him a very small wink.

Mean­while Fleur Dela­cour was crit­iciz­ing the Hog­warts dec­ora­tions to Roger Davies.

“Zis is noth­ing,” she said dis­mis­sive­ly, look­ing around at the sparkling walls of the Great Hall. “At ze Palace of Beaux­ba­tons, we 'ave ice sculp­tures all around ze din­ing cham­ber at Chree­stmas. Zey do not melt, of course…zey are like 'uge stat­ues of di­amond, glit­ter­ing around ze place. And ze food is seem­ply su­perb. And we 'ave choirs of wood nymphs, 'oo ser­enade us as we eat. We 'ave none of zis ug­ly ar­mor in ze 'alls, and eef a poltergeist ev­er en­taired in­to Beaux­ba­tons, 'e would be ex­pelled like zat.” She slapped her hand on­to the ta­ble im­pa­tient­ly.

Roger Davies was watch­ing her talk with a very dazed look on his face, and he kept miss­ing his mouth with his fork. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Davies was too busy star­ing at Fleur to take in a word she was say­ing.

“Ab­so­lute­ly right,” he said quick­ly, slap­ping his own hand down on the ta­ble in im­ita­tion of Fleur. “Like that. Yeah.”

Har­ry looked around the Hall. Ha­grid was sit­ting at one of the oth­er staff ta­bles; he was back in his hor­ri­ble hairy brown suit and gaz­ing up at the top ta­ble. Har­ry saw him give a small wave, and look­ing around, saw Madame Maxime re­turn it, her opals glit­ter­ing in the can­dle­light.

Hermione was now teach­ing Krum to say her name prop­er­ly; he kept call­ing her “Hermy-​own.”

“Her-​my-​oh-​nee,” she said slow­ly and clear­ly.

“Herm-​own-​nin­ny.”

“Close enough,” she said, catch­ing Har­ry's eye and grin­ning.

When all the food had been con­sumed, Dum­ble­dore stood up and asked the stu­dents to do the same. Then, with a wave of his wand, all the ta­bles zoomed back along the walls leav­ing the floor clear, and then he con­jured a raised plat­form in­to ex­is­tence along the right wall. A set of drums, sev­er­al gui­tars, a lute, a cel­lo, and some bag­pipes were set up­on it.

The Weird Sis­ters now trooped up on­to the stage to wild­ly en­thu­si­as­tic ap­plause; they were all ex­treme­ly hairy and dressed in black robes that had been art­ful­ly ripped and torn. They picked up their in­stru­ments, and Har­ry, who had been so in­ter­est­ed in watch­ing them that he had al­most for­got­ten what was com­ing, sud­den­ly re­al­ized that the lanterns on all the oth­er ta­bles had gone out, and that the oth­er cham­pi­ons and their part­ners were stand­ing up.

“Come on!” Par­vati hissed. “We're sup­posed to dance!”

Har­ry tripped over his dress robes as he stood up. The Weird Sis­ters struck up a slow, mourn­ful tune; Har­ry walked on­to the bright­ly lit dance floor, care­ful­ly avoid­ing catch­ing any­one's eye (he could see Sea­mus and Dean wav­ing at him and snig­ger­ing), and next mo­ment, Par­vati had seized his hands, placed one around her waist, and was hold­ing the oth­er tight­ly in hers.

It wasn't as bad as it could have been. Har­ry thought, re­volv­ing slow­ly on the spot (Par­vati was steer­ing). He kept his eyes fixed over the heads of the watch­ing peo­ple, and very soon many of them too had come on­to the dance floor, so that the cham­pi­ons were no longer the cen­ter of at­ten­tion. Neville and Gin­ny were danc­ing near­by - he could see Gin­ny winc­ing fre­quent­ly as Neville trod on her feet - and Dum­ble­dore was waltz­ing with Madame Maxime. He was so dwarfed by her that the top of his point­ed hat bare­ly tick­led her chin; how­ev­er, she moved very grace­ful­ly for a wom­an so large. Mad-​Eye Moody was do­ing an ex­treme­ly un­gain­ly two-​step with Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra, who was ner­vous­ly avoid­ing his wood­en leg.

“Nice socks. Pot­ter,” Moody growled as he passed, his mag­ical eye star­ing through Har­ry's robes.

“Oh - yeah, Dob­by the house-​elf knit­ted them for me,” said Har­ry, grin­ning.

“He is so creepy!” Par­vati whis­pered as Moody clunked away. “I don't think that eye should be al­lowed.”

Har­ry heard the fi­nal, qua­ver­ing note from the bag­pipe with re­lief. The Weird Sis­ters stopped play­ing, ap­plause filled the hall once more, and Har­ry let go of Par­vati at once.

“Let's sit down, shall we?”

“Oh - but - this is a re­al­ly good one!” Par­vati said as the Weird Sis­ters struck up a new song, which was much faster.

“No, I don't like it,” Har­ry lied, and he led her away from the dance floor, past Fred and An­geli­na, who were danc­ing so ex­huber­ant­ly that peo­ple around them were back­ing away in fear of in­jury, and over to the ta­ble where Ron and Pad­ma were sit­ting.

“How's it go­ing?” Har­ry asked Ron, sit­ting down and open­ing a bot­tle of but­ter­beer.

Ron didn't an­swer. He was glar­ing at Hermione and Krum, who were danc­ing near­by. Pad­ma was sit­ting with her arms and legs crossed, one foot jig­gling in time to the mu­sic. Ev­ery now and then she threw a dis­grun­tled look at Ron, who was com­plete­ly ig­nor­ing her. Par­vati sat down on Har­ry's oth­er side, crossed her arms and legs too, and with­in min­utes was asked to dance by a boy from Beaux­ba­tons.

“You don't mind, do you, Har­ry?” Par­vati said.

“What?” said Har­ry, who was now watch­ing Cho and Cedric.

“Oh nev­er mind,” snapped Par­vati, and she went off with the boy from Beaux­ba­tons. When the song end­ed, she did not re­turn.

Hermione came over and sat down in Par­vati's emp­ty chair. She was a bit pink in the face from danc­ing.

“Hi,” said Har­ry. Ron didn't say any­thing.

“It's hot, isn't it?” said Hermione, fan­ning her­self with her hand. “Vik­tor's just gone to get some drinks.”

Ron gave her a with­er­ing look. “Vik­tor?” he said. “Hasn't he asked you to call him Vicky yet?”

Hermione looked at him in sur­prise. “What's up with you?” she said.

“If you don't know,” said Ron scathing­ly, “I'm not go­ing to tell you.”

Hermione stared at him, then at Har­ry, who shrugged.

“Ron, what -?”

“He's from Durm­strang!” spat Ron. “He's com­pet­ing against Har­ry! Against Hog­warts! You - you're -” Ron was ob­vi­ous­ly cast­ing around for words strong enough to de­scribe Hermione's crime, “frat­er­niz­ing with the en­emy, that's what you're do­ing!”

Hermione's mouth fell open.

“Don't be so stupid!” she said af­ter a mo­ment. “The en­emy! Hon­est­ly - who was the one who was all ex­cit­ed when they saw him ar­rive? Who was the one who want­ed his au­to­graph? Who's got a mod­el of him up in their dor­mi­to­ry?”

Ron chose to ig­nore this. “I s'pose he asked you to come with him while you were both in the li­brary?”

“Yes, he did,” said Hermione, the pink patch­es on her cheeks glow­ing more bright­ly. “So what?”

“What hap­pened - try­ing to get him to join spew, were you?”

“No, I wasn't! If you re­al­ly want to know, he - he said he'd been com­ing up to the li­brary ev­ery day to try and talk to me, but he hadn't been able to pluck up the courage!”

Hermione said this very quick­ly, and blushed so deeply that she was the same col­or as Par­vati's robes.

“Yeah, well - that's his sto­ry,” said Ron nas­ti­ly.

“And what's that sup­posed to mean?”

“Ob­vi­ous, isn't it? He's Karkaroff's stu­dent, isn't he? He knows who you hang around with.…He's just try­ing to get clos­er to Har­ry - get in­side in­for­ma­tion on him - or get near enough to jinx him -”

Hermione looked as though Ron had slapped her. When she spoke, her voice quiv­ered.

“For your in­for­ma­tion, he hasn't asked me one sin­gle thing about Har­ry, not one -”

Ron changed tack at the speed of light.

“Then he's hop­ing you'll help him find out what his egg means! I sup­pose you've been putting your heads to­geth­er dur­ing those cozy lit­tle li­brary ses­sions -”

“I'd nev­er help him work out that egg!” said Hermione, look­ing out­raged. “Nev­er. How could you say some­thing like that - I want Har­ry to win the tour­na­ment. Har­ry knows that, don't you, Har­ry?”

“You've got a fun­ny way of show­ing it,” sneered Ron.

“This whole tour­na­ment's sup­posed to be about get­ting to know for­eign wiz­ards and mak­ing friends with them!” said Hermione hot­ly.

“No it isn't!” shout­ed Ron. “It's about win­ning!”

Peo­ple were start­ing to stare at them.

“Ron,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly, “I haven't got a prob­lem with Hermione com­ing with Krum -”

But Ron ig­nored Har­ry too.

“Why don't you go and find Vicky, he'll be won­der­ing where you are,” said Ron.

“Don't call him Vicky!”

Hermione jumped to her feet and stormed off across the dance floor, dis­ap­pear­ing in­to the crowd. Ron watched her go with a mix­ture of anger and sat­is­fac­tion on his face.

“Are you go­ing to ask me to dance at all?” Pad­ma asked him.

“No,” said Ron, still glar­ing af­ter Hermione.

“Fine,” snapped Pad­ma, and she got up and went to join Par­vati and the Beaux­ba­tons boy, who con­jured up one of his friends to join them so fast that Har­ry could have sworn he had zoomed him there by a Sum­mon­ing Charm.

“Vare is Herm-​own-​nin­ny?” said a voice.

Krum had just ar­rived at their ta­ble clutch­ing two but­ter­beers.

“No idea,” said Ron mul­ish­ly, look­ing up at him. “Lost her, have you?”

Krum was look­ing surly again.

“Veil, if you see her, tell her I haff drinks,” he said, and he slouched off.

“Made friends with Vik­tor Krum, have you, Ron?”

Per­cy had bus­tled over, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er and look­ing ex­treme­ly pompous. “Ex­cel­lent! That's the whole point, you know - in­ter­na­tion­al mag­ical co­op­er­ation!”

To Har­ry's dis­plea­sure, Per­cy now took Pad­ma's va­cat­ed seat. The top ta­ble was now emp­ty; Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was danc­ing with Pro­fes­sor Sprout, Lu­do Bag­man with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall; Madame Maxime and Ha­grid were cut­ting a wide path around the dance floor as they waltzed through the stu­dents, and Karkaroff was nowhere to be seen. When the next song end­ed, ev­ery­body ap­plaud­ed once more, and Har­ry saw Lu­do Bag­man kiss Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's hand and make his way back through the crowds, at which point Fred and George ac­cost­ed him.

“What do they think they're do­ing, an­noy­ing se­nior Min­istry mem­bers?” Per­cy hissed, watch­ing Fred and George sus­pi­cious­ly. “No re­spect…”

Lu­do Bag­man shook off Fred and George fair­ly quick­ly, how­ev­er, and, spot­ting Har­ry, waved and came over to their ta­ble.

“I hope my broth­ers weren't both­er­ing you, Mr. Bag­man?” said Per­cy at once.

“What? Oh not at all, not at all!” said Bag­man. “No, they were just telling me a bit more about those fake wands of theirs. Won­der­ing if I could ad­vise them on the mar­ket­ing. I've promised to put them in touch with a cou­ple of con­tacts of mine at Zonko's Joke Shop.…”

Per­cy didn't look hap­py about this at all, and Har­ry was pre­pared to bet he would be rush­ing to tell Mrs. Weasley about this the mo­ment he got home. Ap­par­ent­ly Fred and George's plans had grown even more am­bi­tious late­ly, if they were hop­ing to sell to the pub­lic. Bag­man opened his mouth to ask Har­ry some­thing, but Per­cy di­vert­ed him.

“How do you feel the tour­na­ment's go­ing, Mr. Bag­man? Our de­part­ment's quite sat­is­fied - the hitch with the Gob­let of Fire” - he glanced at Har­ry - “was a lit­tle un­for­tu­nate, of course, but it seems to have gone very smooth­ly since, don't you think?”

“Oh yes,” Bag­man said cheer­ful­ly, “it's all been enor­mous fun. How's old Bar­ty do­ing? Shame he couldn't come.”

“Oh I'm sure Mr. Crouch will be up and about in no time,” said Per­cy im­por­tant­ly, “but in the mean­time, I'm more than will­ing to take up the slack. Of course, it's not all at­tend­ing balls” - he laughed air­ily - “oh no, I've had to deal with all sorts of things that have cropped up in his ab­sence - you heard Ali Bashir was caught smug­gling a con­sign­ment of fly­ing car­pets in­to the coun­try? And then we've been try­ing to per­suade the Tran­syl­va­ni­ans to sign the In­ter­na­tion­al Ban on Du­el­ing. I've got a meet­ing with their Head of Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation in the new year -”

“Let's go for a walk,” Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, “get away from Per­cy.…”

Pre­tend­ing they want­ed more drinks. Har­ry and Ron left the ta­ble, edged around the dance floor, and slipped out in­to the en­trance hall. The front doors stood open, and the flut­ter­ing fairy lights in the rose gar­den winked and twin­kled as they went down the front steps, where they found them­selves sur­round­ed by bush­es; wind­ing, or­na­men­tal paths; and large stone stat­ues. Har­ry could hear splash­ing wa­ter, which sound­ed like a foun­tain. Here and there, peo­ple were sit­ting on carved bench­es. He and Ron set off along one of the wind­ing paths through the rose­bush­es, but they had gone on­ly a short way when they heard an un­pleas­ant­ly fa­mil­iar voice.

“…don't see what there is to fuss about, Ig­or.”

“Severus, you can­not pre­tend this isn't hap­pen­ing!” Karkaroffs voice sound­ed anx­ious and hushed, as though keen not to be over­heard. “It's been get­ting clear­er and clear­er for months. I am be­com­ing se­ri­ous­ly con­cerned, I can't de­ny it -”

“Then flee,” said Snape's voice curt­ly. “Flee - I will make your ex­cus­es. I, how­ev­er, am re­main­ing at Hog­warts.”

Snape and Karkaroff came around the cor­ner. Snape had his wand out and was blast­ing rose­bush­es apart, his ex­pres­sion most ill-​na­tured. Squeals is­sued from many of the bush­es, and dark shapes emerged from them.

“Ten points from Raven­claw, Fawcett!” Snape snarled as a girl ran past him. “And ten points from Huf­flepuff too, Steb­bins!” as a boy went rush­ing af­ter her. “And what are you two do­ing?” he added, catch­ing sight of Har­ry and Ron on the path ahead. Karkaroff, Har­ry saw, looked slight­ly dis­com­posed to see them stand­ing there. His hand went ner­vous­ly to his goa­tee, and he be­gan wind­ing it around his fin­ger.

“We re walk­ing,” Ron told Snape short­ly. “Not against the law, is it?”

“Keep walk­ing, then!” Snape snarled, and he brushed past them, his long black cloak bil­low­ing out be­hind him. Karkaroff hur­ried away af­ter Snape. Har­ry and Ron con­tin­ued down the path.

“What's got Karkaroff all wor­ried?” Ron mut­tered.

“And since when have he and Snape been on first-​name terms?”said Har­ry slow­ly.

They had reached a large stone rein­deer now, over which they could see the sparkling jets of a tall foun­tain. The shad­owy out­lines of two enor­mous peo­ple were vis­ible on a stone bench, watch­ing the wa­ter in the moon­light. And then Har­ry heard Ha­grid speak.

“Mo­men' I saw yeh, I knew,” he was say­ing, in an odd­ly husky voice.

Har­ry and Ron froze. This didn't sound like the sort of scene they ought to walk in on, some­how.…Har­ry looked around, back up the path, and saw Fleur Dela­cour and Roger Davies stand­ing half-​con­cealed in a rose­bush near­by. He tapped Ron on the shoul­der and jerked his head to­ward them, mean­ing that they could eas­ily sneak off that way with­out be­ing no­ticed (Fleur and Davies looked very busy to Har­ry), but Ron, eyes widen­ing in hor­ror at the sight of Fleur, shook his head vig­or­ous­ly, and pulled Har­ry deep­er in­to the shad­ows be­hind the rein­deer.

“What did you know, 'Agrid?” said Madame Maxime, a purr in her low voice.

Har­ry def­inite­ly didn't want to lis­ten to this; he knew Ha­grid would hate to be over­heard in a sit­ua­tion like this (he cer­tain­ly would have) - if it had been pos­si­ble he would have put his fin­gers in his ears and hummed loud­ly, but that wasn't re­al­ly an op­tion. In­stead he tried to in­ter­est him­self in a bee­tle crawl­ing along the stone rein­deer's back, but the bee­tle just wasn't in­ter­est­ing enough to block out Ha­grid's next words.

“I jus' knew…knew you were like me.…Was it yer moth­er or yer fa­ther?”

“I - I don't know what you mean, 'Agrid.…”

“It was my moth­er,” said Ha­grid qui­et­ly. “She was one o' the las' ones in Britain. 'Course, I can' re­mem­ber her too well…she left, see. When I was abou' three. She wasn' re­al­ly the ma­ter­nal sort. Well…it's not in their na­tures, is it? Dun­no what hap­pened to her…might be dead fer all I know.…”

Madame Maxime didn't say any­thing. And Har­ry, in spite of him­self, took his eyes off the bee­tle and looked over the top of the rein­deer's antlers, lis­ten­ing.…He had nev­er heard Ha­grid talk about his child­hood be­fore.

“Me dad was bro­ken-​heart­ed when she wen'. Tiny lit­tle bloke, my dad was. By the time I was six I could lift him up an' put him on top o' the dress­er if he an­noyed me. Used ter make him laugh.…”Ha­grid's deep voice broke. Madame Maxime was lis­ten­ing, mo­tion­less, ap­par­ent­ly star­ing at the sil­very foun­tain. “Dad raised me…but he died, o' course, jus' af­ter I start­ed school. Sor­ta had ter make me own way af­ter that. Dum­ble­dore was a re­al help, mind. Very kind ter me, he was.…”

Ha­grid pulled out a large spot­ted silk hand­ker­chief and blew his nose heav­ily.

“So…any­way…enough abou' me. What about you? Which side you got it on?”

But Madame Maxime had sud­den­ly got to her feet.

“It is chilly,” she said - but what­ev­er the weath­er was do­ing, it was nowhere near as cold as her voice. “I think I will go in now.”

“Eh?” said Ha­grid blankly. “No, don go! I've - I've nev­er met an­oth­er one be­fore!”

“Anuzzer what, pre­cise­ly?” said Madame Maxime, her tone icy.

Har­ry could have told Ha­grid it was best not to an­swer; he stood there in the shad­ows grit­ting his teeth, hop­ing against hope he wouldn't - but it was no good.

“An­oth­er half-​gi­ant, o' course!” said Ha­grid.

“'Ow dare you!” shrieked Madame Maxime. Her voice ex­plod­ed through the peace­ful night air like a foghorn; be­hind him. Har­ry heard Fleur and Roger fall out of their rose­bush. “I 'ave nevair been more in­sult­ed in my life! 'Alf-​gi­ant? Moi? I 'ave - I 'ave big bones!”

She stormed away; great mul­ti­col­ored swarms of fairies rose in­to the air as she passed, an­gri­ly push­ing aside bush­es. Ha­grid was still sit­ting on the bench, star­ing af­ter her. It was much too dark to make out his ex­pres­sion. Then, af­ter about a minute, he stood up and strode away, not back to the cas­tle, but off out in­to the dark grounds in the di­rec­tion of his cab­in.

“C'mon,” Har­ry said, very qui­et­ly to Ron. “Let's go.…”

But Ron didn't move.

“What's up?” said Har­ry, look­ing at him.

Ron looked around at Har­ry, his ex­pres­sion very se­ri­ous in­deed.

“Did you know?” he whis­pered. “About Ha­grid be­ing half-​gi­ant?”

“No,” Har­ry said, shrug­ging. “So what?”

He knew im­me­di­ate­ly, from the look Ron was giv­ing him, that he was once again re­veal­ing his ig­no­rance of the wiz­ard­ing world. Brought up by the Durs­leys, there were many things that wiz­ards took for grant­ed that were rev­ela­tions to Har­ry, but these sur­pris­es had be­come few­er with each suc­ces­sive year. Now, how­ev­er, he could tell that most wiz­ards would not have said “So what?” up­on find­ing out that one of their friends had a gi­ant­ess for a moth­er.

“I'll ex­plain in­side,” said Ron qui­et­ly, “c'mon….”

Fleur and Roger Davies had dis­ap­peared, prob­ably in­to a more pri­vate clump of bush­es. Har­ry and Ron re­turned to the Great Hall. Par­vati and Pad­ma were now sit­ting at a dis­tant ta­ble with a whole crowd of Beaux­ba­tons boys, and Hermione was once more danc­ing with Krum. Har­ry and Ron sat down at a ta­ble far re­moved from the dance floor.

“So?” Har­ry prompt­ed Ron. “What's the prob­lem with gi­ants?”

“Well, they're…they're…” Ron strug­gled for words. “…not very nice,” he fin­ished lame­ly.

“Who cares?” Har­ry said. “There's noth­ing wrong with Ha­grid!”

“I know there isn't, but…blimey, no won­der he keeps it qui­et,” Ron said, shak­ing his head. “I al­ways thought he'd got in the way of a bad En­gorge­ment Charm when he was a kid or some­thing. Didn't like to men­tion it.…”

“But what's it mat­ter if his moth­er was a gi­ant­ess?” said Har­ry.

“Well…no one who knows him will care, 'cos they'll know he's not dan­ger­ous,” said Ron slow­ly. “But…Har­ry, they're just vi­cious, gi­ants. It's like Ha­grid said, it's in their na­tures, they're like trolls…they just like killing, ev­ery­one knows that. There aren't any left in Britain now, though.”

“What hap­pened to them?”

“Well, they were dy­ing out any­way, and then loads got them­selves killed by Au­rors. There're sup­posed to be gi­ants abroad, though.…They hide out in moun­tains most­ly.…”

“I don't know who Maxime thinks she's kid­ding,” Har­ry said, watch­ing Madame Maxime sit­ting alone at the judges' ta­ble, look­ing very somber. “If Ha­grid's half-​gi­ant, she def­inite­ly is. Big bones.…the on­ly thing that's got big­ger bones than her is a di­nosaur.”

Har­ry and Ron spent the rest of the ball dis­cussing gi­ants in their cor­ner, nei­ther of them hav­ing any in­cli­na­tion to dance. Har­ry tried not to watch Cho and Cedric too much; it gave him a strong de­sire to kick some­thing.

When the Weird Sis­ters fin­ished play­ing at mid­night, ev­ery­one gave them a last, loud round of ap­plause and start­ed to wend their way in­to the en­trance hall. Many peo­ple were ex­press­ing the wish that the ball could have gone on longer, but Har­ry was per­fect­ly hap­py to be go­ing to bed; as far as he was con­cerned, the evening hadn't been much fun.

Out in the en­trance hall, Har­ry and Ron saw Hermione say­ing good night to Krum be­fore he went back to the Durm­strang ship. She gave Ron a very cold look and swept past him up the mar­ble stair­case with­out speak­ing. Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed her, but halfway up the stair­case Har­ry heard some­one call­ing him.

“Hey-​Har­ry!”

It was Cedric Dig­gory. Har­ry could see Cho wait­ing for him in the en­trance hall be­low.

“Yeah?” said Har­ry cold­ly as Cedric ran up the stairs to­ward him.

Cedric looked as though he didn't want to say what­ev­er it was in front of Ron, who shrugged, look­ing bad-​tem­pered, and con­tin­ued to climb the stairs.

“Lis­ten…” Cedric low­ered his voice as Ron dis­ap­peared. “I owe you one for telling me about the drag­ons. You know that gold­en egg? Does yours wail when you open it?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry.

“Well…take a bath, okay?”

“What?”

“Take a bath, and - er - take the egg with you, and - er - just mull things over in the hot wa­ter. It'll help you think.…Trust me.”

Har­ry stared at him.

“Tell you what,” Cedric said, “use the pre­fects' bath­room. Fourth door to the left of that stat­ue of Boris the Be­wil­dered on the fifth floor. Pass­word's 'pine fresh.' Got­ta go…want to say good night -”

He grinned at Har­ry again and hur­ried back down the stairs to Cho.

Har­ry walked back to Gryffind­or Tow­er alone. That had been ex­treme­ly strange ad­vice. Why would a bath help him to work out what the wail­ing egg meant? Was Cedric pulling his leg? Was he try­ing to make Har­ry look like a fool, so Cho would like him even more by com­par­ison?

The Fat La­dy and her friend Vi were snooz­ing in the pic­ture over the por­trait hole. Har­ry had to yell “Fairy lights!” be­fore he woke them up, and when he did, they were ex­treme­ly ir­ri­tat­ed. He climbed in­to the com­mon room and found Ron and Hermione hav­ing a blaz­ing row. Stand­ing ten feet apart, they were bel­low­ing at each oth­er, each scar­let in the face.

“Well, if you don't like it, you know what the so­lu­tion is, don't you?” yelled Hermione; her hair was com­ing down out of its el­egant bun now, and her face was screwed up in anger.

“Oh yeah?” Ron yelled back. “What's that?”

“Next time there's a ball, ask me be­fore some­one else does, and not as a last re­sort!”

Ron mouthed sound­less­ly like a gold­fish out of wa­ter as Hermione turned on her heel and stormed up the girls' stair­case to bed. Ron turned to look at Har­ry.

“Well,” he sput­tered, look­ing thun­der­struck, “well - that just proves - com­plete­ly missed the point -”

Har­ry didn't say any­thing. He liked be­ing back on speak­ing terms with Ron too much to speak his mind right now - but he some­how thought that Hermione had got­ten the point much bet­ter than Ron had.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR


RI­TA SKEETER'S SCOOP



E very­body got up late on Box­ing Day. The Gryffind­or com­mon room was much qui­eter than it had been late­ly, many yawns punc­tu­at­ing the lazy con­ver­sa­tions. Hermione's hair was bushy again; she con­fessed to Har­ry that she had used lib­er­al amounts of Sleekeazy's Hair Po­tion on it for the ball, “but it's way too much both­er to do ev­ery day,” she said mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly, scratch­ing a purring Crook­shanks be­hind the ears.

Ron and Hermione seemed to have reached an un­spo­ken agree­ment not to dis­cuss their ar­gu­ment. They were be­ing quite friend­ly to each oth­er, though odd­ly for­mal. Ron and Har­ry wast­ed no time in telling Hermione about the con­ver­sa­tion they had over­heard be­tween Madame Maxime and Ha­grid, but Hermione didn't seem to find the news that Ha­grid was a half-​gi­ant near­ly as shock­ing as Ron did.

“Well, I thought he must be,” she said, shrug­ging. “I knew he couldn't be pure gi­ant be­cause they're about twen­ty feet tall. But hon­est­ly, all this hys­te­ria about gi­ants. They can't all be hor­ri­ble.…It's the same sort of prej­udice that peo­ple have to­ward were­wolves.…It's just big­otry, isn't it?”

Ron looked as though he would have liked to re­ply scathing­ly, but per­haps he didn't want an­oth­er row, be­cause he con­tent­ed him­self with shak­ing his head dis­be­liev­ing­ly while Hermione wasn't look­ing.

It was time now to think of the home­work they had ne­glect­ed dur­ing the first week of the hol­idays. Ev­ery­body seemed to be feel­ing rather flat now that Christ­mas was over - ev­ery­body ex­cept Har­ry, that is, who was start­ing (once again) to feel slight­ly ner­vous.

The trou­ble was that Febru­ary the twen­ty-​fourth looked a lot clos­er from this side of Christ­mas, and he still hadn't done any­thing about work­ing out the clue in­side the gold­en egg. He there­fore start­ed tak­ing the egg out of his trunk ev­ery time he went up to the dor­mi­to­ry, open­ing it, and lis­ten­ing in­tent­ly, hop­ing that this time it would make some sense. He strained to think what the sound re­mind­ed him of, apart from thir­ty mu­si­cal saws, but he had nev­er heard any­thing else like it. He closed the egg, shook it vig­or­ous­ly, and opened it again to see if the sound had changed, but it hadn't. He tried ask­ing the egg ques­tions, shout­ing over all the wail­ing, but noth­ing hap­pened. He even threw the egg across the room - though he hadn't re­al­ly ex­pect­ed that to help.

Har­ry had not for­got­ten the hint that Cedric had giv­en him, but his less-​than-​friend­ly feel­ings to­ward Cedric just now meant that he was keen not to take his help if he could avoid it. In any case, it seemed to him that if Cedric had re­al­ly want­ed to give Har­ry a hand, he would have been a lot more ex­plic­it. He, Har­ry, had told Cedric ex­act­ly what was com­ing in the first task - and Cedric's idea of a fair ex­change had been to tell Har­ry to take a bath. Well, he didn't need that sort of rub­bishy help - not from some­one who kept walk­ing down cor­ri­dors hand in hand with Cho, any­way. And so the first day of the new term ar­rived, and Har­ry set off to lessons, weighed down with books, parch­ment, and quills as usu­al, but al­so with the lurk­ing wor­ry of the egg heavy in his stom­ach, as though he were car­ry­ing that around with him too.

Snow was still thick up­on the grounds, and the green­house win­dows were cov­ered in con­den­sa­tion so thick that they couldn't see out of them in Her­bol­ogy. No­body was look­ing for­ward to Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures much in this weath­er, though as Ron said, the skrewts would prob­ably warm them up nice­ly, ei­ther by chas­ing them, or blast­ing off so force­ful­ly that Ha­grid's cab­in would catch fire.

When they ar­rived at Ha­grid 's cab­in, how­ev­er, they found an el­der­ly witch with close­ly cropped gray hair and a very promi­nent chin stand­ing be­fore his front door.

“Hur­ry up, now, the bell rang five min­utes ago,” she barked at them as they strug­gled to­ward her through the snow.

“Who're you?” said Ron, star­ing at her. “Where's Ha­grid?”

“My name is Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank,” she said briskly. “I am your tem­po­rary Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er.”

“Where's Ha­grid?” Har­ry re­peat­ed loud­ly.

“He is in­dis­posed,” said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank short­ly.

Soft and un­pleas­ant laugh­ter reached Har­ry's ears. He turned; Dra­co Mal­foy and the rest of the Slytherins were join­ing the class. All of them looked glee­ful, and none of them looked sur­prised to see Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank.

“This way, please,” said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, and she strode off around the pad­dock where the Beaux­ba­tons hors­es were shiv­er­ing. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione fol­lowed her, look­ing back over their shoul­ders at Ha­grid's cab­in. All the cur­tains were closed. Was Ha­grid in there, alone and ill?

“What's wrong with Ha­grid?” Har­ry said, hur­ry­ing to catch up with Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank.

“Nev­er you mind,” she said as though she thought he was be­ing nosy.

“I do mind, though,” said Har­ry hot­ly. “What's up with him?”

Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank act­ed as though she couldn't hear him. She led them past the pad­dock where the huge Beaux­ba­tons hors­es were stand­ing, hud­dled against the cold, and to­ward a tree on the edge of the for­est, where a large and beau­ti­ful uni­corn was teth­ered.

Many of the girls “ooooohed!” at the sight of the uni­corn.

“Oh it's so beau­ti­ful!” whis­pered Laven­der Brown. “How did she get it? They're sup­posed to be re­al­ly hard to catch!”

The uni­corn was so bright­ly white it made the snow all around look gray. It was paw­ing the ground ner­vous­ly with its gold­en hooves and throw­ing back its horned head.

“Boys keep back!” barked Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, throw­ing out an arm and catch­ing Har­ry hard in the chest. “They pre­fer the wom­an's touch, uni­corns. Girls to the front, and ap­proach with care, come on, easy does it.…”

She and the girls walked slow­ly for­ward to­ward the uni­corn, leav­ing the boys stand­ing near the pad­dock fence, watch­ing. The mo­ment Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank was out of earshot. Har­ry turned to Ron.

“What d'you reck­ons wrong with him? You don't think a skrewt -?”

“Oh he hasn't been at­tacked, Pot­ter, if that's what you're think­ing,” said Mal­foy soft­ly. “No, he's just too ashamed to show his big, ug­ly face.”

“What d'you mean?” said Har­ry sharply.

Mal­foy put his hand in­side the pock­et of his robes and pulled out a fold­ed page of newsprint.

“There you go,” he said. “Hate to break it to you. Pot­ter.…”

He smirked as Har­ry snatched the page, un­fold­ed it, and read it, with Ron, Sea­mus, Dean, and Neville look­ing over his shoul­der. It was an ar­ti­cle topped with a pic­ture of Ha­grid look­ing ex­treme­ly shifty.



DUM­BLE­DORE'S GI­ANT MIS­TAKE

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, ec­cen­tric Head­mas­ter of Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, has nev­er been afraid to make con­tro­ver­sial staff ap­point­ments, writes Ri­ta Skeeter, Spe­cial Cor­re­spon­dent. In Septem­ber of this year, he hired Alas­tor “Mad-​Eye” Moody, the no­to­ri­ous­ly jinx-​hap­py ex-​Au­ror, to teach De­fense Against the Dark Arts, a de­ci­sion that caused many raised eye­brows at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, giv­en Moody's well-​known habit of at­tack­ing any­body who makes a sud­den move­ment in his pres­ence. Mad-​Eye Moody, how­ev­er, looks re­spon­si­ble and kind­ly when set be­side the part-​hu­man Dum­ble­dore em­ploys to teach Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures.

Rubeus Ha­grid, who ad­mits to be­ing ex­pelled from Hog­warts in his third year, has en­joyed the po­si­tion of game­keep­er at the school ev­er since, a job se­cured for him by Dum­ble­dore. Last year, how­ev­er, Ha­grid used his mys­te­ri­ous in­flu­ence over the head­mas­ter to se­cure the ad­di­tion­al post of Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er, over the heads of many bet­ter-​qual­ified can­di­dates.

An alarm­ing­ly large and fe­ro­cious-​look­ing man, Ha­grid has been us­ing his new­found au­thor­ity to ter­ri­fy the stu­dents in his care with a suc­ces­sion of hor­rif­ic crea­tures. While Dum­ble­dore turns a blind eye, Ha­grid has maimed sev­er­al pupils dur­ing a se­ries of lessons that many ad­mit to be­ing “very fright­en­ing.”

'I was at­tacked by a hip­pogriff, and my friend Vin­cent Crabbe got a bad bite off a flob­ber­worm,“ says Dra­co Mal­foy, a fourth-​year stu­dent. ”We all hate Ha­grid, but we're just too scared to say any­thing."

Ha­grid has no in­ten­tion of ceas­ing his cam­paign of in­tim­ida­tion, how­ev­er. In con­ver­sa­tion with a Dai­ly Prophet re­porter last month, he ad­mit­ted breed­ing crea­tures he has dubbed “Blast-​End­ed Skrewts,” high­ly dan­ger­ous cross­es be­tween man­ti-​cores and fire-​crabs. The cre­ation of new breeds of mag­ical crea­ture is, of course, an ac­tiv­ity usu­al­ly close­ly ob­served by the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures. Ha­grid, how­ev­er, con­sid­ers him­self to be above such pet­ty re­stric­tions.

“I was just hav­ing some fun,” he says, be­fore hasti­ly chang­ing the sub­ject.

As if this were not enough, the Dai­ly Prophet has now un­earthed ev­idence that Ha­grid is not - as he has al­ways pre­tend­ed - a pure-​blood wiz­ard. He is not, in fact, even pure hu­man. His moth­er, we can ex­clu­sive­ly re­veal, is none oth­er than the gi­ant­ess Frid­wul­fa, whose where­abouts are cur­rent­ly un­known.

Blood­thirsty and bru­tal, the gi­ants brought them­selves to the point of ex­tinc­tion by war­ring amongst them­selves dur­ing the last cen­tu­ry. The hand­ful that re­mained joined the ranks of He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named, and were re­spon­si­ble for some of the worst mass Mug­gle killings of his reign of ter­ror.

While many of the gi­ants who served He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named were killed by Au­rors work­ing against the Dark Side, Frid­wul­fa was not among them. It is pos­si­ble she es­caped to one of the gi­ant com­mu­ni­ties still ex­ist­ing in for­eign moun­tain ranges. If his an­tics dur­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures lessons are any guide, how­ev­er, Frid-​wul­fa's son ap­pears to have in­her­it­ed her bru­tal na­ture.

In a bizarre twist, Ha­grid is re­put­ed to have de­vel­oped a close friend­ship with the boy who brought around You-​Know-​Who's fall from pow­er - there­by driv­ing Ha­grid's own moth­er, like the rest of You-​Know-​Who's sup­port­ers, in­to hid­ing. Per­haps Har­ry Pot­ter is un­aware of the un­pleas­ant truth about his large friend - but Al­bus Dum­ble­dore sure­ly has a du­ty to en­sure that Har­ry Pot­ter, along with his fel­low stu­dents, is warned about the dan­gers of as­so­ci­at­ing with part-​gi­ants.



Har­ry fin­ished read­ing and looked up at Ron, whose mouth was hang­ing open.

“How did she find out?” he whis­pered.

But that wasn't what was both­er­ing Har­ry.

“What d'you mean, 'we all hate Ha­grid'?” Har­ry spat at Mal­foy. “What's this rub­bish about him” - he point­ed at Crabbe - “get­ting a bad bite off a flob­ber­worm? They haven't even got teeth!”

Crabbe was snig­ger­ing, ap­par­ent­ly very pleased with him­self.

“Well, I think this should put an end to the oaf's teach­ing ca­reer,” said Mal­foy, his eyes glint­ing. “Half-​gi­ant…and there was me think­ing he'd just swal­lowed a bot­tle of Skele-​Gro when he was young.…None of the mum­mies and dad­dies are go­ing to like this at all.…They'll be wor­ried he'll eat their kids, ha, ha.…”

“You -”

“Are you pay­ing at­ten­tion over there?”

Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Planks voice car­ried over to the boys; the girls were all clus­tered around the uni­corn now, stroking it. Har­ry was so an­gry that the Dai­ly Prophet ar­ti­cle shook in his hands as he turned to stare un­see­ing­ly at the uni­corn, whose many mag­ical prop­er­ties Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank was now enu­mer­at­ing in a loud voice, so that the boys could hear too.

“I hope she stays, that wom­an!” said Par­vati Patil when the les­son had end­ed and they were all head­ing back to the cas­tle for lunch. “That's more what I thought Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures would be like…prop­er crea­tures like uni­corns, not mon­sters.…”

“What about Ha­grid?” Har­ry said an­gri­ly as they went up the steps.

“What about him?” said Par­vati in a hard voice. “He can still be game­keep­er, can't he?”

Par­vati had been very cool to­ward Har­ry since the ball. He sup­posed that he ought to have paid her a bit more at­ten­tion, but she seemed to have had a good time all the same. She was cer­tain­ly telling any­body who would lis­ten that she had made ar­range­ments to meet the boy from Beaux­ba­tons in Hogsmeade on the next week­end trip.

“That was a re­al­ly good les­son,” said Hermione as they en­tered the Great Hall. “I didn't know half the things Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank told us about uni -”

“Look at this!” Har­ry snarled, and he shoved the Dai­ly Prophet ar­ti­cle un­der Hermione's nose.

Hermione's mouth fell open as she read. Her re­ac­tion was ex­act­ly the same as Ron's.

“How did that hor­ri­ble Skeeter wom­an find out? You don't think Ha­grid told her?”

“No,” said Har­ry, lead­ing the way over to the Gryffind­or ta­ble and throw­ing him­self in­to a chair, fu­ri­ous. “He nev­er even told us, did he? I reck­on she was so mad he wouldn't give her loads of hor­ri­ble stuff about me, she went fer­ret­ing around to get him back.”

“Maybe she heard him telling Madame Maxime at the ball,” said Hermione qui­et­ly.

“We'd have seen her in the gar­den!” said Ron. “Any­way, she's not sup­posed to come in­to school any­more, Ha­grid said Dum­ble­dore banned her.…”

“Maybe she's got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak,” said Har­ry, ladling chick­en casse­role on­to his plate and splash­ing it ev­ery­where in his anger. “Sort of thing she'd do, isn't it, hide in bush­es lis­ten­ing to peo­ple.”

“Like you and Ron did, you mean,” said Hermione.

“We weren't try­ing to hear him!” said Ron in­dig­nant­ly. “We didn't have any choice! The stupid prat, talk­ing about his gi­ant­ess moth­er where any­one could have heard him!”

“We've got to go and see him,” said Har­ry. “This evening, af­ter Div­ina­tion. Tell him we want him back…you do want him back?” he shot at Hermione.

“I - well, I'm not go­ing to pre­tend it didn't make a nice change, hav­ing a prop­er Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures les­son for once - but I do want Ha­grid back, of course I do!” Hermione added hasti­ly, quail­ing un­der Har­ry's fu­ri­ous stare.

So that evening af­ter din­ner, the three of them left the cas­tle once more and went down through the frozen grounds to Ha­grid's cab­in. They knocked, and Fang's boom­ing barks an­swered.

“Ha­grid, it's us!” Har­ry shout­ed, pound­ing on the door. “Open up!”

Ha­grid didn't an­swer. They could hear Fang scratch­ing at the door, whin­ing, but it didn't open. They ham­mered on it for ten more min­utes; Ron even went and banged on one of the win­dows, but there was no re­sponse.

“What's he avoid­ing us for?” Hermione said when they had fi­nal­ly giv­en up and were walk­ing back to the school. “He sure­ly doesn't think we'd care about him be­ing half-​gi­ant?”

But it seemed that Ha­grid did care. They didn't see a sign of him all week. He didn't ap­pear at the staff ta­ble at meal­times, they didn't see him go­ing about his game­keep­er du­ties on the grounds, and Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank con­tin­ued to take the Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class­es. Mal­foy was gloat­ing at ev­ery pos­si­ble op­por­tu­ni­ty.

“Miss­ing your half-​breed pal?” he kept whis­per­ing to Har­ry when­ev­er there was a teach­er around, so that he was safe from Har­ry's re­tal­ia­tion. “Miss­ing the ele­phant-​man?”

There was a Hogsmeade vis­it halfway through Jan­uary. Hermione was very sur­prised that Har­ry was go­ing to go.

“I just thought you'd want to take ad­van­tage of the com­mon room be­ing qui­et,” she said. “Re­al­ly get to work on that egg.”

“Oh I - I reck­on I've got a pret­ty good idea what it's about now,” Har­ry lied.

“Have you re­al­ly?” said Hermione, look­ing im­pressed. “Well done!”

Har­ry's in­sides gave a guilty squirm, but he ig­nored them. He still had five weeks to work out that egg clue, af­ter all, and that was ages…where­as if he went in­to Hogsmeade, he might run in­to Ha­grid, and get a chance to per­suade him to come back.

He, Ron, and Hermione left the cas­tle to­geth­er on Sat­ur­day and set off through the cold, wet grounds to­ward the gates. As they passed the Durm­strang ship moored in the lake, they saw Vik­tor Krum emerge on­to the deck, dressed in noth­ing but swim­ming trunks. He was very skin­ny in­deed, but ap­par­ent­ly a lot tougher than he looked, be­cause he climbed up on­to the side of the ship, stretched out his arms, and dived, right in­to the lake.

“He's mad!” said Har­ry, star­ing at Krum's dark head as it bobbed out in­to the mid­dle of the lake. “It must be freez­ing, it's Jan­uary!”

“It's a lot cold­er where he comes from,” said Hermione. “I sup­pose it feels quite warm to him.”

“Yeah, but there's still the gi­ant squid,” said Ron. He didn't sound anx­ious - if any­thing, he sound­ed hope­ful. Hermione no­ticed his tone of voice and frowned.

“He's re­al­ly nice, you know,” she said. “He's not at all like you'd think, com­ing from Durm­strang. He likes it much bet­ter here, he told me.”

Ron said noth­ing. He hadn't men­tioned Vik­tor Krum since the ball, but Har­ry had found a minia­ture arm un­der his bed on Box­ing Day, which had looked very much as though it had been snapped off a small mod­el fig­ure wear­ing Bul­gar­ian Quid­ditch robes.

Har­ry kept his eyes skinned for a sign of Ha­grid all the way down the slushy High Street, and sug­gest­ed a vis­it to the Three Broom­sticks once he had as­cer­tained that Ha­grid was not in any of the shops.

The pub was as crowd­ed as ev­er, but one quick look around at all the ta­bles told Har­ry that Ha­grid wasn't there. Heart sink­ing, he went up to the bar with Ron and Hermione, or­dered three but­ter­beers from Madam Ros­mer­ta, and thought gloomi­ly that he might just as well have stayed be­hind and lis­tened to the egg wail­ing af­ter all.

“Doesn't he ev­er go in­to the of­fice?” Hermione whis­pered sud­den­ly. “Look!”

She point­ed in­to the mir­ror be­hind the bar, and Har­ry saw Lu­do Bag­man re­flect­ed there, sit­ting in a shad­owy cor­ner with a bunch of gob­lins. Bag­man was talk­ing very fast in a low voice to the gob­lins, all of whom had their arms crossed and were look­ing rather men­ac­ing.

It was in­deed odd. Har­ry thought, that Bag­man was here at the Three Broom­sticks on a week­end when there was no Tri­wiz­ard event, and there­fore no judg­ing to be done. He watched Bag­man in the mir­ror. He was look­ing strained again, quite as strained as he had that night in the for­est be­fore the Dark Mark had ap­peared. But just then Bag­man glanced over at the bar, saw Har­ry, and stood up.

“In a mo­ment, in a mo­ment!” Har­ry heard him say brusque­ly to the gob­lins, and Bag­man hur­ried through the pub to­ward Har­ry, his boy­ish grin back in place.

“Har­ry!” he said. “How are you? Been hop­ing to run in­to you! Ev­ery­thing go­ing all right?”

“Fine, thanks,” said Har­ry.

“Won­der if I could have a quick, pri­vate word, Har­ry?” said Bag­man ea­ger­ly. “You couldn't give us a mo­ment, you two, could you?”

“Er - okay,” said Ron, and he and Hermione went off to find a ta­ble.

Bag­man led Har­ry along the bar to the end fur­thest from Madam Ros­mer­ta.

“Well, I just thought I'd con­grat­ulate you again on your splen­did per­for­mance against that Horn­tail, Har­ry,” said Bag­man. “Re­al­ly su­perb.”

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, but he knew this couldn't be all that Bag­man want­ed to say, be­cause he could have con­grat­ulat­ed Har­ry in front of Ron and Hermione. Bag­man didn't seem in any par­tic­ular rush to spill the beans, though. Har­ry saw him glance in­to the mir­ror over the bar at the gob­lins, who were all watch­ing him and Har­ry in si­lence through their dark, slant­ing eyes.

“Ab­so­lute night­mare,” said Bag­man to Har­ry in an un­der­tone, notic­ing Har­ry watch­ing the gob­lins too. “Their En­glish isn't too good…it's like be­ing back with all the Bul­gar­ians at the Quid­ditch World Cup…but at least they used sign lan­guage an­oth­er hu­man could rec­og­nize. This lot keep gab­bling in Gob­blede-​gook…and I on­ly know one word of Gob­blede­gook. Blad­vak. It means 'pick­ax.' I don't like to use it in case they think I'm threat­en­ing them.”

He gave a short, boom­ing laugh.

“What do they want?” Har­ry said, notic­ing how the gob­lins were still watch­ing Bag­man very close­ly.

“Er - well…” said Bag­man, look­ing sud­den­ly ner­vous. “They…er…they're look­ing for Bar­ty Crouch.”

“Why are they look­ing for him here?” said Har­ry. “He's at the Min­istry in Lon­don, isn't he?”

“Er…as a mat­ter of fact, I've no idea where he is,” said Bag­man. “He's sort of…stopped com­ing to work. Been ab­sent for a cou­ple of weeks now. Young Per­cy, his as­sis­tant, says he's ill. Ap­par­ent­ly he's just been send­ing in­struc­tions in by owl. But would you mind not men­tion­ing that to any­one. Har­ry? Be­cause Ri­ta Skeeter's still pok­ing around ev­ery­where she can, and I'm will­ing to bet she'd work up Bar­tys ill­ness in­to some­thing sin­is­ter. Prob­ably say he's gone miss­ing like Bertha Jorkins.”

“Have you heard any­thing about Bertha Jorkins?” Har­ry asked.

“No,” said Bag­man, look­ing strained again. “I've got peo­ple look­ing, of course…” (About time, thought Har­ry) “and it's all very strange. She def­inite­ly ar­rived in Al­ba­nia, be­cause she met her sec­ond cousin there. And then she left the cousin's house to go south and see an aunt…and she seems to have van­ished with­out trace en route. Blowed if I can see where she's got to…she doesn't seem the type to elope, for in­stance…but still.…What are we do­ing, talk­ing about gob­lins and Bertha Jorkins? I re­al­ly want­ed to ask you” - he low­ered his voice - “how are you get­ting on with your gold­en egg?”

“Er…not bad,” Har­ry said un­truth­ful­ly.

Bag­man seemed to know he wasn't be­ing hon­est.

“Lis­ten, Har­ry,” he said (still in a very low voice), “I feel very bad about all this…you were thrown in­to this tour­na­ment, you didn't vol­un­teer for it…and if…” (his voice was so qui­et now, Har­ry had to lean clos­er to lis­ten) “if I can help at all…a prod in the right di­rec­tion…I've tak­en a lik­ing to you…the way you got past that drag­on!…well, just say the word.”

Har­ry stared up in­to Bag­man's round, rosy face and his wide, ba­by-​blue eyes.

“We're sup­posed to work out the clues alone, aren't we?” he said, care­ful to keep his voice ca­su­al and not sound as though he was ac­cus­ing the head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Games and Sports of break­ing the rules.

“Well…well, yes,” said Bag­man im­pa­tient­ly, “but - come on. Har­ry - we all want a Hog­warts vic­to­ry, don't we?”

“Have you of­fered Cedric help?” Har­ry said.

The small­est of frowns creased Bag­man's smooth face. “No, I haven't,” he said. “I - well, like I say, I've tak­en a lik­ing to you. Just thought I'd of­fer…”

“Well, thanks,” said Har­ry, “but I think I'm near­ly there with the egg…cou­ple more days should crack it.”

He wasn't en­tire­ly sure why he was re­fus­ing Bag­man's help, ex­cept that Bag­man was al­most a stranger to him, and ac­cept­ing his as­sis­tance would feel some­how much more like cheat­ing than ask­ing ad­vice from Ron, Hermione, or Sir­ius.

Bag­man looked al­most af­front­ed, but couldn't say much more as Fred and George turned up at that point.

“Hel­lo, Mr. Bag­man,” said Fred bright­ly. “Can we buy you a drink?”

“Er…no,” said Bag­man, with a last dis­ap­point­ed glance at Har­ry, “no, thank you, boys…”

Fred and George looked quite as dis­ap­point­ed as Bag­man, who was sur­vey­ing Har­ry as though he had let him down bad­ly.

“Well, I must dash,” he said. “Nice see­ing you all. Good luck, Har­ry.”

He hur­ried out of the pub. The gob­lins all slid off their chairs and ex­it­ed af­ter him. Har­ry went to re­join Ron and Hermione.

“What did he want?” Ron said, the mo­ment Har­ry had sat down.

“He of­fered to help me with the gold­en egg,” said Har­ry.

“He shouldn't be do­ing that!” said Hermione, look­ing very shocked. “He's one of the judges! And any­way, you've al­ready worked it out - haven't you?”

“Er…near­ly,” said Har­ry.

“Well, I don't think Dum­ble­dore would like it if he knew Bag­man was try­ing to per­suade you to cheat!” said Hermione, still look­ing deeply dis­ap­prov­ing. “I hope he's try­ing to help Cedric as much!”

“He's not, I asked,” said Har­ry.

“Who cares if Dig­gory's get­ting help?” said Ron. Har­ry pri­vate­ly agreed.

“Those gob­lins didn't look very friend­ly,” said Hermione, sip­ping her but­ter­beer. “What were they do­ing here?”

“Look­ing for Crouch, ac­cord­ing to Bag­man,” said Har­ry. “He's still ill. Hasn't been in­to work.”

“Maybe Per­cy's poi­son­ing him,” said Ron. “Prob­ably thinks if Crouch snuffs it he'll be made head of the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation.”

Hermione gave Ron a don't-​joke-​about-​things-​like-​that look, and said, “Fun­ny, gob­lins look­ing for Mr. Crouch.…They'd nor­mal­ly deal with the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures.”

“Crouch can speak loads of dif­fer­ent lan­guages, though,” said Har­ry. “Maybe they need an in­ter­preter.”

“Wor­ry­ing about poor 'ick­le gob­lins, now, are you?” Ron asked Hermione. “Think­ing of start­ing up S.P.U.G. or some­thing? So­ci­ety for the Pro­tec­tion of Ug­ly Gob­lins?”

“Ha, ha, ha,” said Hermione sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. “Gob­lins don't need pro­tec­tion. Haven't you been lis­ten­ing to what Pro­fes­sor Binns has been telling us about gob­lin re­bel­lions?”

“No,” said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

“Well, the're quite ca­pa­ble of deal­ing with wiz­ards,” said Hermione, tak­ing an­oth­er sip of but­ter­beer. “They're very clever. They're not like house-​elves, who nev­er stick up for them­selves.”

“Uh-​oh,” said Ron, star­ing at the door.

Ri­ta Skeeter had just en­tered. She was wear­ing ba­nana-​yel­low robes to­day; her long nails were paint­ed shock­ing pink, and she was ac­com­pa­nied by her paunchy pho­tog­ra­pher. She bought drinks, and she and the pho­tog­ra­pher made their way through the crowds to a ta­ble near­by. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione glar­ing at her as she ap­proached. She was talk­ing fast and look­ing very sat­is­fied about some­thing.

“…didn't seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bo­zo? Now, why would that be, do you think? And what's he do­ing with a pack of gob­lins in tow any­way? Show­ing them the sights…what non­sense…he was al­ways a bad liar. Reck­on some­thing's up? Think we should do a bit of dig­ging? 'Dis­graced Ex-​Head of Mag­ical Games and Sports, Lu­do Bag­man…' Snap­py start to a sen­tence, Bo­zo - we just need to find a sto­ry to fit it -”

“Try­ing to ru­in some­one else's life?” said Har­ry loud­ly.

A few peo­ple looked around. Ri­ta Skeeter's eyes widened be­hind her jew­eled spec­ta­cles as she saw who had spo­ken.

“Har­ry!” she said, beam­ing. “How love­ly! Why don't you come and join-?”

“I wouldn't come near you with a ten-​foot broom­stick,” said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly. “What did you do that to Ha­grid for, eh?”

Ri­ta Skeeter raised her heav­ily pen­ciled eye­brows.

“Our read­ers have a right to the truth, Har­ry. I am mere­ly do­ing my-”

“Who cares if he's half-​gi­ant?” Har­ry shout­ed. “There's noth­ing wrong with him!”

The whole pub had gone very qui­et. Madam Ros­mer­ta was star­ing over from be­hind the bar, ap­par­ent­ly obliv­ious to the fact that the flagon she was fill­ing with mead was over­flow­ing.

Ri­ta Skeeter's smile flick­ered very slight­ly, but she hitched it back al­most at once; she snapped open her crocodile-​skin hand­bag, pulled out her Quick-​Quotes Quill, and said, “How about giv­ing me an in­ter­view about the Ha­grid you know. Har­ry? The man be­hind the mus­cles? Your un­like­ly friend­ship and the rea­sons be­hind it. Would you call him a fa­ther sub­sti­tute?”

Hermione stood up very abrupt­ly, her but­ter­beer clutched in her hand as though it were a grenade.

“You hor­ri­ble wom­an,” she said, through grit­ted teeth, “you don't care, do you, any­thing for a sto­ry, and any­one will do, wont they? Even Lu­do Bag­man -”

“Sit down, you sil­ly lit­tle girl, and don't talk about things you don't un­der­stand,” said Ri­ta Skeeter cold­ly, her eyes hard­en­ing as they fell on Hermione. “I know things about Lu­do Bag­man that would make your hair curl…not that it needs it -” she added, eye­ing Hermione's bushy hair.

“Let's go,” said Hermione, “c'mon. Har­ry - Ron…”

They left; many peo­ple were star­ing at them as they went. Har­ry glanced back as they reached the door. Ri­ta Skeeter's Quick-​Quotes Quill was out; it was zoom­ing back­ward and for­ward over a piece of parch­ment on the ta­ble.

“She'll be af­ter you next, Hermione,” said Ron in a low and wor­ried voice as they walked quick­ly back up the street.

“Let her try!” said Hermione de­fi­ant­ly; she was shak­ing with rage. “I'll show her! Sil­ly lit­tle girl, am I? Oh, I'll get her back for this. First Har­ry, then Ha­grid…”

“You don't want to go up­set­ting Ri­ta Skeeter,” said Ron ner­vous­ly. “I'm se­ri­ous, Hermione, she'll dig up some­thing on you -”

“My par­ents don't read the Dai­ly Prophet. She can't scare me in­to hid­ing!” said Hermione, now strid­ing along so fast that it was all Har­ry and Ron could do to keep up with her. The last time Har­ry had seen Hermione in a rage like this, she had hit Dra­co Mal­foy around the face. “And Ha­grid isn't hid­ing any­more! He should nev­er have let that ex­cuse for a hu­man be­ing up­set him! Come on!”

Break­ing in­to a run, she led them all the way back up the road, through the gates flanked by winged boars, and up through the grounds to Ha­grid's cab­in.

The cur­tains were still drawn, and they could hear Fang bark­ing as they ap­proached.

“Ha­grid!” Hermione shout­ed, pound­ing on his front door. “Ha­grid, that's enough! We know you're in there! No­body cares if your mum was a gi­ant­ess, Ha­grid! You can't let that foul Skeeter wom­an do this to you! Ha­grid, get out here, you're just be­ing -”

The door opened. Hermione said, “About it-!” and then stopped, very sud­den­ly, be­cause she had found her­self face-​to-​face, not with Ha­grid, but with Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.

“Good af­ter­noon,” he said pleas­ant­ly, smil­ing down at them.

“We er we want­ed to see Ha­grid,” said Hermione in a rather small voice.

“Yes, I sur­mised as much,” said Dum­ble­dore, his eyes twin­kling. “Why don't you come in?”

“Oh…um…okay,” said Hermione.

She, Ron, and Har­ry went in­to the cab­in; Fang launched him­self up­on Har­ry the mo­ment he en­tered, bark­ing mad­ly and try­ing to lick his ears. Har­ry fend­ed off Fang and looked around.

Ha­grid was sit­ting at his ta­ble, where there were two large mugs of tea. He looked a re­al mess. His face was blotchy, his eyes swollen, and he had gone to the oth­er ex­treme where his hair was con­cerned; far from try­ing to make it be­have, it now looked like a wig of tan­gled wire.

“Hi, Ha­grid,” said Har­ry.

Ha­grid looked up.

“'Lo,” he said in a very hoarse voice.

“More tea, I think,” said Dum­ble­dore, clos­ing the door be­hind Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, draw­ing out his wand, and twid­dling it; a re­volv­ing tea tray ap­peared in midair along with a plate of cakes. Dum­ble­dore mag­icked the tray on­to the ta­ble, and ev­ery­body sat down. There was a slight pause, and then Dum­ble­dore said, “Did you by any chance hear what Miss Granger was shout­ing, Ha­grid?”

Hermione went slight­ly pink, but Dum­ble­dore smiled at her and con­tin­ued, “Hermione, Har­ry, and Ron still seem to want to know you, judg­ing by the way they were at­tempt­ing to break down the door.”

“Of course we still want to know you!” Har­ry said, star­ing at Ha­grid. “You don't think any­thing that Skeeter cow - sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor,” he added quick­ly, look­ing at Dum­ble­dore.

“I have gone tem­porar­ily deaf and haven't any idea what you said. Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, twid­dling his thumbs and star­ing at the ceil­ing.

“Er-​right,” said Har­ry sheep­ish­ly. “I just meant-​Ha­grid, how could you think we'd care what that-​wom­an-​wrote about you?”

Two fat tears leaked out of Ha­grid's bee­tle-​black eyes and fell slow­ly in­to his tan­gled beard.

“Liv­ing proof of what I've been telling you, Ha­grid,” said Dum­ble­dore, still look­ing care­ful­ly up at the ceil­ing. “I have shown you the let­ters from the count­less par­ents who re­mem­ber you from their own days here, telling me in no un­cer­tain terms that if I sacked you, they would have some­thing to say about it -”

“Not all of 'em,” said Ha­grid hoarse­ly. “Not all of 'em wan me ter stay.”

“Re­al­ly, Ha­grid, if you are hold­ing out for uni­ver­sal pop­ular­ity, I'm afraid you will be in this cab­in for a very long time,” said Dum­ble­dore, now peer­ing stern­ly over his half-​moon spec­ta­cles. “Not a week has passed since I be­came head­mas­ter of this school when I haven't had at least one owl com­plain­ing about the way I run it. But what should I do? Bar­ri­cade my­self in my study and refuse to talk to any­body?”

“Yeh - yeh're not half-​gi­ant!” said Ha­grid croak­ily.

“Ha­grid, look what I've got for rel­atives!” Har­ry said fu­ri­ous­ly. “Look at the Durs­leys!”

“An ex­cel­lent point,” said Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore. “My own broth­er, Aber­forth, was pros­ecut­ed for prac­tic­ing in­ap­pro­pri­ate charms on a goat. It was all over the pa­pers, but did Aber­forth hide? No, he did not! He held his head high and went about his busi­ness as usu­al! Of course, I'm not en­tire­ly sure he can read, so that may not have been brav­ery….”

“Come back and teach, Ha­grid,” said Hermione qui­et­ly, “please come back, we re­al­ly miss you.”

Ha­grid gulped. More tears leaked out down his cheeks and in­to his tan­gled beard.

Dum­ble­dore stood up. “I refuse to ac­cept your res­ig­na­tion, Ha­grid, and I ex­pect you back at work on Mon­day,” he said. “You will join me for break­fast at eight-​thir­ty in the Great Hall. No ex­cus­es. Good af­ter­noon to you all.”

Dum­ble­dore left the cab­in, paus­ing on­ly to scratch Fangs ears. When the door had shut be­hind him, Ha­grid be­gan to sob in­to his dust­bin-​lid-​sized hands. Hermione kept pat­ting his arm, and at last, Ha­grid looked up, his eyes very red in­deed, and said, “Great man, Dum­ble­dore…great man.…”

“Yeah, he is,” said Ron. “Can I have one of these cakes, Ha­grid?”

“Help yer­self,” said Ha­grid, wip­ing his eyes on the back of his hand. “Ar, he's righ', o' course - yeh're all righ'…I bin stupid…my ol' dad woul­da bin ashamed o' the way I've bin be­havin'.…” More tears leaked out, but he wiped them away more force­ful­ly, and said, “Nev­er shown you a pic­ture of my old dad, have I? Here…”

Ha­grid got up, went over to his dress­er, opened a draw­er, and pulled out a pic­ture of a short wiz­ard with Ha­grid's crin­kled black eyes, beam­ing as he sat on top of Ha­grid's shoul­der. Ha­grid was a good sev­en or eight feet tall, judg­ing by the ap­ple tree be­side him, but his face was beard­less, young, round, and smooth - he looked hard­ly old­er than eleven.

“Tha was tak­en jus' af­ter I got in­ter Hog­warts,” Ha­grid croaked. “Dad was dead chuffed…thought I migh' not be a wiz­ard, see, 'cos me mum…well, any­way. 'Course, I nev­er was great shakes at mag­ic, re­al­ly…but at least he nev­er saw me ex­pelled. Died, see, in me sec­ond year.…”

“Dum­ble­dore was the one who stuck up for me af­ter Dad went. Got me the game­keep­er job…trusts peo­ple, he does. Gives 'em sec­ond chances…tha's what sets him apar' from oth­er heads, see. He'll ac­cept any­one at Hog­warts, s'long as they've got the tal­ent. Knows peo­ple can turn out okay even if their fam­ilies weren'…well…all tha' re­spectable. But some don un­der­stand that. There's some who'd al­ways hold it against yeh…there's some who'd even pre­tend they just had big bones rather than stand up an' say - I am what I am, an' I'm not ashamed. 'Nev­er be ashamed,' my ol' dad used ter say, 'there's some who'll hold it against you, but they're not worth both­erin' with.' An' he was right. I've bin an id­iot. I'm not both­erin' with her no more, I promise yeh that. Big bones…I'll give her big bones.”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one an­oth­er ner­vous­ly; Har­ry would rather have tak­en fifty Blast-​End­ed Skrewts for a walk than ad­mit to Ha­grid that he had over­heard him talk­ing to Madame Maxime, but Ha­grid was still talk­ing, ap­par­ent­ly un­aware that he had said any­thing odd.

“Yeh know wha, Har­ry?” he said, look­ing up from the pho­to­graph of his fa­ther, his eyes very bright, “when I firs' met you, you re­mind­ed me o' me a bit. Mum an' Dad gone, an' you was feel­in' like yeh wouldn' fit in at Hog­warts, re­mem­ber? Not sure yeh were re­al­ly up to it…an' now look at yeh, Har­ry! School cham­pi­on!”

He looked at Har­ry for a mo­ment and then said, very se­ri­ous­ly, “Yeh know what I'd love. Har­ry? I'd love yeh ter win, I re­al­ly would. It'd show 'em all…yeh don' have ter be pure­blood ter do it. Yeh don have ter be ashamed of what yeh are. It'd show 'em Dum­ble­dore's the one who's got it righ', let­tin' any­one in as long as they can do mag­ic. How you doin' with that egg, Har­ry?”

“Great,” said Har­ry. “Re­al­ly great.”

Ha­grid's mis­er­able face broke in­to a wide, wa­tery smile.

“Tha's my boy…you show 'em, Har­ry, you show 'em. Beat 'em all.”

Ly­ing to Ha­grid wasn't quite like ly­ing to any­one else. Har­ry went back to the cas­tle lat­er that af­ter­noon with Ron and Hermione, un­able to ban­ish the im­age of the hap­py ex­pres­sion on Ha­grid's whiskery face as he had imag­ined Har­ry win­ning the tour­na­ment. The in­com­pre­hen­si­ble egg weighed more heav­ily than ev­er on Har­ry's con­science that evening, and by the time he had got in­to bed, he had made up his mind - it was time to shelve his pride and see if Cedric's hint was worth any­thing.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE


THE EGG AND THE EYE



H ar­ry had no idea how long a bath he would need to work out the se­cret of the gold­en egg, he de­cid­ed to do it at night, when he would be able to take as much time as he want­ed. Re­luc­tant though he was to ac­cept more fa­vors from Cedric, he al­so de­cid­ed to use the pre­fects' bath­room; far few­er peo­ple were al­lowed in there, so it was much less like­ly that he would be dis­turbed.

Har­ry planned his ex­cur­sion care­ful­ly, be­cause he had been caught out of bed and out-​of-​bounds by Filch the care­tak­er in the mid­dle of the night once be­fore, and had no de­sire to re­peat the ex­pe­ri­ence. The In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak would, of course, be es­sen­tial, and as an added pre­cau­tion, Har­ry thought he would take the Ma­raud­ers Map, which, next to the cloak, was the most use­ful aid to rule-​break­ing Har­ry owned. The map showed the whole of Hog­warts, in­clud­ing its many short­cuts and se­cret pas­sage­ways and, most im­por­tant of all, it re­vealed the peo­ple in­side the cas­tle as mi­nus­cule, la­beled dots, mov­ing around the cor­ri­dors, so that Har­ry would be fore­warned if some­body was ap­proach­ing the bath­room.

On Thurs­day night, Har­ry sneaked up to bed, put on the cloak, crept back down­stairs, and, just as he had done on the night when Ha­grid had shown him the drag­ons, wait­ed for the por­trait hole to open. This time it was Ron who wait­ed out­side to give the Fat La­dy the pass­word (“ba­nana frit­ters”), “Good luck,” Ron mut­tered, climb­ing in­to the room as Har­ry crept out past him.

It was awk­ward mov­ing un­der the cloak tonight, be­cause Har­ry had the heavy egg un­der one arm and the map held in front of his nose with the oth­er. How­ev­er, the moon­lit cor­ri­dors were emp­ty and silent, and by check­ing the map at strate­gic in­ter­vals, Har­ry was able to en­sure that he wouldn't run in­to any­one he want­ed to avoid. When he reached the stat­ue of Boris the Be­wil­dered, a lost-​look­ing wiz­ard with his gloves on the wrong hands, he lo­cat­ed the right door, leaned close to it, and mut­tered the pass­word, “Pine fresh,” just as Cedric had told him.

The door creaked open. Har­ry slipped in­side, bolt­ed the door be­hind him, and pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, look­ing around.

His im­me­di­ate re­ac­tion was that it would be worth be­com­ing a pre­fect just to be able to use this bath­room. It was soft­ly lit by a splen­did can­dle-​filled chan­de­lier, and ev­ery­thing was made of white mar­ble, in­clud­ing what looked like an emp­ty, rect­an­gu­lar swim­ming pool sunk in­to the mid­dle of the floor. About a hun­dred gold­en taps stood all around the pools edges, each with a dif­fer­ent­ly col­ored Jew­el set in­to its han­dle. There was al­so a div­ing board. Long white linen cur­tains hung at the win­dows; a large pile of fluffy white tow­els sat in a cor­ner, and there was a sin­gle gold­en-​framed paint­ing on the wall. It fea­tured a blonde mer­maid who was fast asleep on a rock, her long hair over her face. It flut­tered ev­ery time she snored.

Har­ry moved for­ward, look­ing around, his foot­steps echo­ing off the walls. Mag­nif­icent though the bath­room was - and quite keen though he was to try out a few of those taps - now he was here he couldn't quite sup­press the feel­ing that Cedric might have been hav­ing him on. How on earth was this sup­posed to help solve the mys­tery of the egg? Nev­er­the­less, he put one of the Huffy tow­els, the cloak, the map, and the egg at the side of the swim­ming-​pool-​sized bath, then knelt down and turned on a few of the taps.

He could tell at once that they car­ried dif­fer­ent sorts of bub­ble bath mixed with the wa­ter, though it wasn't bub­ble bath as Har­ry had ev­er ex­pe­ri­enced it. One tap gushed pink and blue bub­bles the size of foot­balls; an­oth­er poured ice-​white foam so thick that Har­ry thought it would have sup­port­ed his weight if he'd cared to test it; a third sent heav­ily per­fumed pur­ple clouds hov­er­ing over the sur­face of the wa­ter. Har­ry amused him­self for awhile turn­ing the taps on and off, par­tic­ular­ly en­joy­ing the ef­fect of one whose jet bounced off the sur­face of the wa­ter in large arcs. Then, when the deep pool was full of hot wa­ter, foam, and bub­bles, which took a very short time con­sid­er­ing its size, Har­ry turned off all the taps, pulled off his pa­ja­mas, slip­pers, and dress­ing gown, and slid in­to the wa­ter.

It was so deep that his feet bare­ly touched the bot­tom, and he ac­tu­al­ly did a cou­ple of lengths be­fore swim­ming back to the side and tread­ing wa­ter, star­ing at the egg. High­ly en­joy­able though it was to swim in hot and foamy wa­ter with clouds of dif­fer­ent-​col­ored steam waft­ing all around him, no stroke of bril­liance came to him, no sud­den burst of un­der­stand­ing.

Har­ry stretched out his arms, lift­ed the egg in his wet hands, and opened it. The wail­ing, screech­ing sound filled the bath­room, echo­ing and re­ver­ber­at­ing off the mar­ble walls, but it sound­ed just as in­com­pre­hen­si­ble as ev­er, if not more so with all the echoes. He snapped it shut again, wor­ried that the sound would at­tract Filch, won­der­ing whether that hadn't been Cedric's plan - and then, mak­ing him jump so bad­ly that he dropped the egg, which clat­tered away across the bath­room floor, some­one spoke.

“I'd try putting it in the wa­ter, if I were you.”

Har­ry had swal­lowed a con­sid­er­able amount of bub­bles in shock. He stood up, sput­ter­ing, and saw the ghost of a very glum-​look­ing girl sit­ting cross-​legged on top of one of the taps. It was Moan­ing Myr­tle, who was usu­al­ly to be heard sob­bing in the S-​bend of a toi­let three floors be­low.

“Myr­tle!” Har­ry said in out­rage, “I'm - I'm not wear­ing any­thing!”

The foam was so dense that this hard­ly mat­tered, but he had a nasty feel­ing that Myr­tle had been spy­ing on him from out of one of the taps ev­er since he had ar­rived.

“I closed my eyes when you got in,” she said, blink­ing at him through her thick spec­ta­cles. “You haven't been to see me for ages.”

“Yeah…well…” said Har­ry, bend­ing his knees slight­ly, just to make ab­so­lute­ly sure Myr­tle couldn't see any­thing but his head, “I'm not sup­posed to come in­to your bath­room, am I? It's a girls' one.”

“You didn't used to care,” said Myr­tle mis­er­ably. “You used to be in there all the time.”

This was true, though on­ly be­cause Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had found Myr­tle's out-​of-​or­der toi­lets a con­ve­nient place to brew Polyjuice Po­tion in se­cret - a for­bid­den po­tion that had turned him and Ron in­to liv­ing repli­cas of Crabbe and Goyle for an hour, so that they could sneak in­to the Slytherin com­mon room.

“I got told off for go­ing in there.” said Har­ry, which was half-​true; Per­cy had once caught him com­ing out of Myr­tles bath­room. “I thought I'd bet­ter not come back af­ter that.”

“Oh…I see…” said Myr­tle, pick­ing at a spot on her chin in a mo­rose sort of way. “Well…any­way…I'd try the egg in the wa­ter. That's what Cedric Dig­gory did.”

“Have you been spy­ing on him too?” said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly. “What d'you do, sneak up here in the evenings to watch the pre­fects take baths?”

“Some­times,” said Myr­tle, rather sly­ly, “but I've nev­er come out to speak to any­one be­fore.”

“I'm hon­ored,” said Har­ry dark­ly. “You keep your eyes shut!”

He made sure Myr­tle had her glass­es well cov­ered be­fore hoist­ing him­self out of the bath, wrap­ping the tow­el firm­ly around his waist, and go­ing to re­trieve the egg. Once he was back in the wa­ter, Myr­tle peered through her fin­gers and said, “Go on, then…open it un­der the wa­ter!”

Har­ry low­ered the egg be­neath the foamy sur­face and opened it…and this time, it did not wail. A gur­gling song was com­ing out of it, a song whose words he could­nt dis­tin­guish through the wa­ter.

“You need to put your head un­der too,” said Myr­tle, who seemed to be thor­ough­ly en­joy­ing boss­ing him around. “Go on!”

Har­ry took a great breath and slid un­der the sur­face - and now, sit­ting on the mar­ble bot­tom of the bub­ble-​filled bath, he heard a cho­rus of eerie voic­es singing to him from the open egg in his hands:



"Come seek us where our voic­es sound,

We can­not sing above the ground,

And while you re search­ing, pon­der this:

Wove tak­en what you'll sore­ly miss,

An hour long you'll have to look,

And to re­cov­er what we took,

But past an hour-- the prospect's black,

Too late, it's gone, it wont come back"



Har­ry let him­self float back up­ward and broke the bub­bly sur­face, shak­ing his hair out of his eyes.

“Hear it?” said Myr­tle.

“Yeah…'Come seek us where our voic­es sound…' and if I need per­suad­ing…hang on, I need to lis­ten again.…”

He sank back be­neath the wa­ter. It took three more un­der­wa­ter ren­di­tions of the egg's song be­fore Har­ry had it mem­orized; then he trod wa­ter for a while, think­ing hard, while Myr­tle sat and watched him.

“I've got to go and look for peo­ple who can't use their voic­es above the ground.…” he said slow­ly. “Er…who could that be?”

“Slow, aren't you?”

He had nev­er seen Moan­ing Myr­tle so cheer­ful, apart from the day when a dose of PolyJuice Po­tion had giv­en Hermione the hairy face and tail of a cat. Har­ry stared around the bath­room, think­ing…if the voic­es could on­ly be heard un­der­wa­ter, then it made sense for them to be­long to un­der­wa­ter crea­tures. He ran this the­ory past Myr­tle, who smirked at him.

“Well, thats what Dig­gory thought,” she said. “He lay there talk­ing to him­self for ages about it. Ages and ages…near­ly all the bub­bles had gone.…”

“Un­der­wa­ter…” Har­ry said slow­ly. “Myr­tle…what lives in the lake, apart from the gi­ant squid?”

“Oh all sorts,” she said. “I some­times go down there…some­times don't have any choice, if some­one flush­es my toi­let when I'm not ex­pect­ing it.…”

Try­ing not to think about Moan­ing Myr­tle zoom­ing down a pipe to the lake with the con­tents of a toi­let. Har­ry said, “Well, does any­thing in there have a hu­man voice? Hang on -”

Har­ry's eyes had fall­en on the pic­ture of the snooz­ing mer­maid on the wall.

“Myr­tle, there aren't mer­peo­ple in there, are there?”

“Oooh, very good,” she said, her thick glass­es twin­kling, “it took Dig­gory much longer than that! And that was with her awake too” - Myr­tle jerked her head to­ward the mer­maid with an ex­pres­sion of great dis­like on her glum face - “gig­gling and show­ing off and flash­ing her fins.…”

“Thats it, isn't it?” said Har­ry ex­cit­ed­ly. “The sec­ond task's to go and find the mer­peo­ple in the lake and…and…”

But he sud­den­ly re­al­ized what he was say­ing, and he felt the ex­cite­ment drain out of him as though some­one had just pulled a plug in his stom­ach. He wasn't a very good swim­mer; he'd nev­er had much prac­tice. Dud­ley had had lessons in his youth, but Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non, no doubt hop­ing that Har­ry would drown one day, hadn't both­ered to give him any. A cou­ple of lengths of this bath were all very well, but that lake was very large, and very deep…and mer­peo­ple would sure­ly live right at the bot­tom.…

“Myr­tle,” Har­ry said slow­ly, “how am I sup­posed to breathe?”

At this, Myr­tle's eyes filled with sud­den tears again.

“Tact­less!” she mut­tered, grop­ing in her robes for a hand­ker­chief.

“What's tact­less?” said Har­ry, be­wil­dered.

“Talk­ing about breath­ing in front of me!” she said shril­ly, and her voice echoed loud­ly around the bath­room. “When I can't…when I haven't…not for ages…”

She buried her face in her hand­ker­chief and sniffed loud­ly. Har­ry re­mem­bered how touchy Myr­tle had al­ways been about be­ing dead, but none of the oth­er ghosts he knew made such a fuss about it.

“Sor­ry,” he said im­pa­tient­ly. “I didn't mean - I just for­got…”

“Oh yes, very easy to for­get Myr­tle's dead,” said Myr­tle, gulp­ing, look­ing at him out of swollen eyes. “No­body missed me even when I was alive. Took them hours and hours to find my body - I know, I was sit­ting there wait­ing for them. Olive Horn­by came in­to the bath­room - Are you in here again, sulk­ing, Myr­tle?' she said, 'be­cause Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet asked me to look for you -' And then she saw my body…ooooh, she didn't for­get it un­til her dy­ing day, I made sure of that…fol­lowed her around and re­mind­ed her, I did. I re­mem­ber at her broth­er's wed­ding -”

But Har­ry wasn't lis­ten­ing; he was think­ing about the mer­peo­ple's song again. “We've tak­en what you II sore­ly miss.” That sound­ed as though they were go­ing to steal some­thing of his, some­thing he had to get back. What were they go­ing to take?

“-and then, of course, she went to the Min­istry of Mag­ic to stop me stalk­ing her, so I had to come back here and live in my toi­let.”

“Good,” said Har­ry vague­ly. “Well, I'm a lot fur­ther on than I was.…Shut your eyes again, will you? I'm get­ting out.”

He re­trieved the egg from the bot­tom of the bath, climbed out, dried him­self, and pulled on his pa­ja­mas and dress­ing gown again.

“Will you come and vis­it me in my bath­room again some­time?” Moan­ing Myr­tle asked mourn­ful­ly as Har­ry picked up the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

“Er…I'll try,” Har­ry said, though pri­vate­ly think­ing the on­ly way he'd be vis­it­ing Myr­tle's bath­room again was if ev­ery oth­er toi­let in the cas­tle got blocked. “See you. Myr­tle…thanks for your help.”

“Bye, 'bye,” she said gloomi­ly, and as Har­ry put on the In­vis­iblli­ty Cloak he saw her zoom back up the tap.

Out in the dark cor­ri­dor, Har­ry ex­am­ined the Ma­raud­ers Map to check that the coast was still clear. Yes, the dots be­long­ing to Filch and his cat, Mrs. Nor­ris, were safe­ly in their of­fice…noth­ing else seemed to be mov­ing apart from Peeves, though he was bounc­ing around the tro­phy room on the floor above.…Har­ry had tak­en his first step back to­ward Gryffind­or Tow­er when some­thing else on the map caught his eye…some­thing dis­tinct­ly odd.

Peeves was not the on­ly thing that was mov­ing. A sin­gle dot was flit­ting around a room in the bot­tom left-​hand cor­ner - Snape's of­fice. But the dot wasn't la­beled “Severus Snape”…it was Bartemius Crouch.

Har­ry stared at the dot. Mr. Crouch was sup­posed to be too ill to go to work or to come to the Yule Ball - so what was he do­ing, sneak­ing in­to Hog­warts at one o'clock in the morn­ing? Har­ry watched close­ly as the dot moved around and around the room, paus­ing here and there.…

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, think­ing…and then his cu­rios­ity got the bet­ter of him. He turned and set off in the op­po­site di­rec­tion to­ward the near­est stair­case. He was go­ing to see what Crouch was up to.

Har­ry walked down the stairs as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, though the faces in some of the por­traits still turned cu­ri­ous­ly at the squeak of a floor­board, the rus­tle of his pa­ja­mas. He crept along the cor­ri­dor be­low, pushed aside a tapestry about halfway along, and pro­ceed­ed down a nar­row­er stair­case, a short­cut that would take him down two floors. He kept glanc­ing down at the map, won­der­ing…It just didn't seem in char­ac­ter, some­how, for cor­rect, law-​abid­ing Mr. Crouch to be sneak­ing around some­body else's of­fice this late at night.…

And then, halfway down the stair­case, not think­ing about what he was do­ing, not con­cen­trat­ing on any­thing but the pe­cu­liar be­hav­ior of Mr. Crouch, Har­ry's leg sud­den­ly sank right through the trick step Neville al­ways for­got to jump. He gave an un­gain­ly wob­ble, and the gold­en egg, still damp from the bath, slipped from un­der his arm. He lurched for­ward to try and catch it, but too late; the egg fell down the long stair­case with a bang as loud as a bass drum on ev­ery step - the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak slipped - Har­ry snatched at it, and the Ma­raud­er's Map flut­tered out of his hand and slid down six stairs, where, sunk in the step to above his knee, he couldn't reach it.

The gold­en egg fell through the tapestry at the bot­tom of the stair­case, burst open, and be­gan wail­ing loud­ly in the cor­ri­dor be­low. Har­ry pulled out his wand and strug­gled to touch the Ma­raud­er's Map, to wipe it blank, but it was too far away to reach -

Pulling the cloak back over him­self Har­ry straight­ened up, lis­ten­ing hard with his eyes screwed up with fear…and, al­most im­me­di­ate­ly -

“PEEVES!”

It was the un­mis­tak­able hunt­ing cry of Filch the care­tak­er. Har­ry could hear his rapid, shuf­fling foot­steps com­ing near­er and near­er, his wheezy voice raised in fury.

“What's this rack­et? Wake up the whole cas­tle, will you? I'll have you, Peeves, I'll have you, you'll…and what is this?”

Filch's foot­steps halt­ed; there was a clink of met­al on met­al and the wail­ing stopped - Filch had picked up the egg and closed it. Har­ry stood very still, one leg still Jammed tight­ly in the mag­ical step, lis­ten­ing. Any mo­ment now, Filch was go­ing to pull aside the tapestry, ex­pect­ing to see Peeves…and there would be no Peeves…but if he came up the stairs, he would spot the Ma­raud­er's Map…and In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak or not, the map would show “Har­ry Pot­ter” stand­ing ex­act­ly where he was.

“Egg?” Filch said qui­et­ly at the foot of the stairs. “My sweet!” - Mrs. Nor­ris was ob­vi­ous­ly with him - “This is a Tri­wiz­ard clue! This be­longs to a school cham­pi­on!”

Har­ry felt sick; his heart was ham­mer­ing very fast -

“PEEVES!” Filch roared glee­ful­ly. “You've been steal­ing!”

He ripped back the tapestry be­low, and Har­ry saw his hor­ri­ble, pouchy face and bulging, pale eyes star­ing up the dark and (to Filch) de­sert­ed stair­case.

“Hid­ing, are you?” he said soft­ly. “I'm com­ing to get you, Peeves.…You've gone and stolen a Tri­wiz­ard clue, Peeves.…Dum­ble­dore'll have you out of here for this, you filthy, pil­fer­ing poltergeist.…”

Filch start­ed to climb the stairs, his scrawny, dust-​col­ored cat at his heels. Mrs. Mor­ris's lamp-​like eyes, so very like her mas­ters, were fixed di­rect­ly up­on Har­ry. He had had oc­ca­sion be­fore now to won­der whether the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak worked on cats.…Sick with ap­pre­hen­sion, he watched Filch draw­ing near­er and near­er in his old flan­nel dress­ing gown - he tried des­per­ate­ly to pull his trapped leg free, but it mere­ly sank a few more inch­es - any sec­ond now, Filch was go­ing to spot the map or walk right in­to him -

“Filch? Whats go­ing on?”

Filch stopped a few steps be­low Har­ry and turned. At the foot of the stairs stood the on­ly per­son who could make Har­ry's sit­ua­tion worse: Snape. He was wear­ing a long gray night­shirt and he looked livid.

“Its Peeves, Pro­fes­sor,” Filch whis­pered malev­olent­ly. “He threw this egg down the stairs.”

Snape climbed up the stairs quick­ly and stopped be­side Filch. Har­ry grit­ted his teeth, con­vinced his loud­ly thump­ing heart would give him away at any sec­ond.…

“Peeves?” said Snape soft­ly, star­ing at the egg in Filch's hands. “But Peeves couldn't get in­to my of­fice.…”

“This egg was in your of­fice. Pro­fes­sor?”

“Of course not,” Snape snapped. “I heard bang­ing and wail­ing -”

“Yes, Pro­fes­sor, that was the egg -”

“- I was com­ing to in­ves­ti­gate -”

“- Peeves threw it. Pro­fes­sor -”

“- and when I passed my of­fice, I saw that the torch­es were lit and a cup­board door was ajar! Some­body has been search­ing it!”

But Peeves couldn't -"

“I know he couldn't, Filch!” Snape snapped again. “I seal my of­fice with a spell none but a wiz­ard could break!” Snape looked up the stairs, straight through Har­ry, and then down in­to the cor­ri­dor be­low. “I want you to come and help me search for the in­trud­er, Filch.”

“I - yes, Pro­fes­sor - but -”

Filch looked yearn­ing­ly up the stairs, right through Har­ry, who could see that he was very re­luc­tant to for­go the chance of cor­ner­ing Peeves. Go, Har­ry plead­ed with him silent­ly, go with Snape…go…Mrs. Nor­ris was peer­ing around Filch's legs.…Har­ry had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that she could smell him.…Why had he filled that bath with so much per­fumed foam?

“The thing is, Pro­fes­sor,” said Filch plain­tive­ly, “the head­mas­ter will have to lis­ten to me this time. Peeves has been steal­ing from a stu­dent, it might be my chance to get him thrown out of the cas­tle once and for all -”

“Filch, I don't give a damn about that wretched poltergeist; it's my of­fice that's -”

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk.

Snape stopped talk­ing very abrupt­ly. He and Filch both looked down at the foot of the stairs. Har­ry saw Mad-​Eye Moody limp in­to sight through the nar­row gap be­tween their heads. Moody was wear­ing his old trav­el­ing cloak over his night­shirt and lean­ing on his staff as usu­al.

“Pa­ja­ma par­ty, is it?” he growled up the stairs.

“Pro­fes­sor Snape and I heard nois­es, Pro­fes­sor,” said Filch at once. “Peeves the Poltergeist, throw­ing things around as usu­al - and then Pro­fes­sor Snape dis­cov­ered that some­one had bro­ken in­to his off -”

“Shut up!” Snape hissed to Filch.

Moody took a step clos­er to the foot of the stairs. Har­ry saw Moody's mag­ical eye trav­el over Snape, and then, un­mis­tak­ably, on­to him­self.

Har­ry's heart gave a hor­ri­ble jolt. Moody could see through In­vis­ibil­ity Cloaks…he alone could see the full strangeness of the scene:

Snape in his night­shirt, Filch clutch­ing the egg, and he, Har­ry, trapped in the stairs be­hind them. Moody's lop­sid­ed gash of a mouth opened in sur­prise. For a few sec­onds, he and Har­ry stared straight in­to each oth­er's eyes. Then Moody closed his mouth and turned his blue eye up­on Snape again.

“Did I hear that cor­rect­ly, Snape?” he asked slow­ly. “Some­one broke in­to your of­fice?”

“It is unim­por­tant,” said Snape cold­ly. “On the con­trary,” growled Moody, “it is very im­por­tant. Who'd want to break in­to your of­fice?”

“A stu­dent, I dare­say,” said Snape. Har­ry could see a vein flick­er­ing hor­ri­bly on Snape's greasy tem­ple. “It has hap­pened be­fore. Po­tion in­gre­di­ents have gone miss­ing from my pri­vate store cup­board…stu­dents at­tempt­ing il­lic­it mix­tures, no doubt.…”

“Reck­on they were af­ter po­tion in­gre­di­ents, eh?” said Moody. “Not hid­ing any­thing else in your of­fice, are you?”

Har­ry saw the edge of Snape's sal­low face turn a nasty brick col­or, the vein in his tem­ple puls­ing more rapid­ly.

“You know I'm hid­ing noth­ing, Moody,” he said in a soft and dan­ger­ous voice, “as you've searched my of­fice pret­ty thor­ough­ly your­self.”

Moody's face twist­ed in­to a smile. “Au­ror's priv­ilege, Snape. Dum­ble­dore told me to keep an eye -”

“Dum­ble­dore hap­pens to trust me,” said Snape through clenched teeth. “I refuse to be­lieve that he gave you or­ders to search my of­fice!”

“Course Dum­ble­dore trusts you,” growled Moody. “Hes a trust­ing man, isn't he? Be­lieves in sec­ond chances. But me - I say there are spots that don't come off, Snape. Spots that nev­er come off, d'you know what I mean?”

Snape sud­den­ly did some­thing very strange. He seized his left fore­arm con­vul­sive­ly with his right hand, as though some­thing on it had hurt him.

Moody laughed. “Get back to bed, Snape.”

“You don't have the au­thor­ity to send me any­where!” Snape hissed, let­ting go of his arm as though an­gry with him­self. “I have as much right to prowl this school af­ter dark as you do!”

“Prowl away,” said Moody, but his voice was full of men­ace. “I look for­ward to meet­ing you in a dark cor­ri­dor some time.…You've dropped some­thing, by the way.…”

With a stab of hor­ror. Har­ry saw Moody point at the Ma­raud­ers Map, still ly­ing on the stair­case six steps be­low him. As Snape and Filch both turned to look at it, Har­ry threw cau­tion to the winds; he raised his arms un­der the cloak and waved fu­ri­ous­ly at Moody to at­tract his at­ten­tion, mouthing “It's mine! Mine!”

Snape had reached out for it, a hor­ri­ble ex­pres­sion of dawn­ing com­pre­hen­sion on his face -

“Ac­cio Parch­ment!”

The map flew up in­to the air, slipped through Snape's out­stretched fin­gers, and soared down the stairs in­to Moody's hand.

“My mis­take,” Moody said calm­ly. “It's mine - must've dropped it ear­li­er -”

But Snape's black eyes were dart­ing from the egg in Filch's arms to the map in Moody's hand, and Har­ry could tell he was putting two and two to­geth­er, as on­ly Snape could.…

“Pot­ter,” he said qui­et­ly.

“What's that?” said Moody calm­ly, fold­ing up the map and pock­et­ing it.

“Pot­ter!” Snape snarled, and he ac­tu­al­ly turned his head and stared right at the place where Har­ry was, as though he could sud­den­ly see him. “That egg is Pot­ters egg. That piece of parch­ment be­longs to Pot­ter. I have seen it be­fore, I rec­og­nize it! Pot­ter is here! Pot­ter, in his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak!”

Snape stretched out his hands like a blind man and be­gan to move up the stairs; Har­ry could have sworn his over-​large nos­trils were di­lat­ing, try­ing to sniff Har­ry out - trapped. Har­ry leaned back­ward, try­ing to avoid Snape's fin­ger­tips, but any mo­ment now -

“There's noth­ing there, Snape!” barked Moody, “but I'll be hap­py to tell the head­mas­ter how quick­ly your mind jumped to Har­ry Pot­ter!”

“Mean­ing what?” Snape turned again to look at Moody, his hands still out­stretched, inch­es from Har­ry's chest.

“Mean­ing that Dum­ble­dore's very in­ter­est­ed to know who's got it in for that boy!” said Moody, limp­ing near­er still to the foot of the stairs. “And so am I, Snape…very in­ter­est­ed.…” The torch­light flick­ered across his man­gled face, so that the scars, and the chunk miss­ing from his nose, looked deep­er and dark­er than ev­er.

Snape was look­ing down at Moody, and Har­ry couldn't see the ex­pres­sion on his face. For a mo­ment, no­body moved or said any­thing. Then Snape slow­ly low­ered his hands.

“I mere­ly thought,” said Snape, in a voice of forced calm, “that if Pot­ter was wan­der­ing around af­ter hours again…it's an un­for­tu­nate habit of his…he should be stopped. For - for his own safe­ty.”

“Ah, I see,” said Moody soft­ly. “Got Pot­ter's best in­ter­ests at heart, have you?”

There was a pause. Snape and Moody were still star­ing at each oth­er, Mrs. Nor­ris gave a loud me­ow, still peer­ing around Filch's legs, look­ing for the source of Har­ry's bub­ble-​bath smell.

“I think I will go back to bed,” Snape said curt­ly.

“Best idea you've had all night,” said Moody. “Now, Filch, if you'll just give me that egg -”

“No!” said Filch, clutch­ing the egg as though it were his first­born son. “Pro­fes­sor Moody, this is ev­idence of Peeves' treach­ery!”

“It's the prop­er­ty of the cham­pi­on he stole it from,” said Moody. Hand it over, now."

Snape swept down­stairs and passed Moody with­out an­oth­er word. Filch made a chirrup­ing noise to Mrs. Nor­ris, who stared blankly at Har­ry for a few more sec­onds be­fore turn­ing and fol­low­ing her mas­ter. Still breath­ing very fast. Har­ry heard Snape walk­ing away down the cor­ri­dor; Filch hand­ed Moody the egg and dis­ap­peared from view too, mut­ter­ing to Mrs. Nor­ris. “Nev­er mind. my sweet…we'll see Dum­ble­dore in the morn­ing…tell him what Peeves was up to.…”

A door slammed. Har­ry was left star­ing down at Moody, who placed his staff on the bot­tom­most stair and start­ed to climb la­bo­ri­ous­ly to­ward him, a dull clunk on ev­ery oth­er step.

“Close shave. Pot­ter,” he mut­tered.

“Yeah…I - er…thanks,” said Har­ry weak­ly.

“What is this thing?” said Moody, draw­ing the Ma­raud­er's Map out of his pock­et and un­fold­ing it.

“Map of Hog­warts,” said Har­ry, hop­ing Moody was go­ing to pull him out of the stair­case soon; his leg was re­al­ly hurt­ing him.

“Mer­lins beard,” Moody whis­pered, star­ing at the map, his mag­ical eye go­ing hay­wire. “This…this is some map. Pot­ter!”

“Yeah, its…quite use­ful,” Har­ry said. His eyes were start­ing to wa­ter from the pain. “Er - Pro­fes­sor Moody, d'you think you could help me -?”

“What? Oh! Yes…yes, of course.…”

Moody took hold of Har­ry's arms and pulled; Har­ry's leg came free of the trick step, and he climbed on­to the one above it. Moody was still gaz­ing at the map.

“Pot­ter…” he said slow­ly, “you didn't hap­pen, by any chance, to see who broke in­to Snape's of­fice, did you? On this map, I mean?”

“Er…yeah, I did…” Har­ry ad­mit­ted. “It was Mr. Crouch.”

Moody's mag­ical eye whizzed over the en­tire sur­face of the map. He looked sud­den­ly alarmed.

“Crouch?” he said. “You're - you're sure. Pot­ter?”

“Pos­itive,” said Har­ry.

“Well, he's not here any­more,” said Moody, his eye still whizzing over the map. “Crouch…that's very - very in­ter­est­ing.…”

He said noth­ing for al­most a minute, still star­ing at the map. Har­ry could tell that this news meant some­thing to Moody and very much want­ed to know what it was. He won­dered whether he dared ask. Moody scared him slight­ly…yet Moody had just helped him avoid an aw­ful lot of trou­ble.…

“Er…Pro­fes­sor Moody…why d'you reck­on Mr. Crouch want­ed to look around Snape's of­fice?”

Moody's mag­ical eye left the map and fixed, quiv­er­ing, up­on Har­ry. It was a pen­etrat­ing glare, and Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Moody was siz­ing him up, won­der­ing whether to an­swer or not, or how much to tell him.

“Put it this way. Pot­ter,” Moody mut­tered fi­nal­ly, “they say old Mad-​Eye's ob­sessed with catch­ing Dark wiz­ards…but I'm noth­ing - noth­ing - com­pared to Bar­ty Crouch.”

He con­tin­ued to stare at the map. Har­ry was burn­ing to know more.

“Pro­fes­sor Moody?” he said again. “D'you think…could this have any­thing to do with…maybe Mr. Crouch thinks there's some­thing go­ing on.…”

“Like what?” said Moody sharply.

Har­ry won­dered how much he dare say. He didn't want Moody to guess that he had a source of in­for­ma­tion out­side Hog­warts; that might lead to tricky ques­tions about Sir­ius.

“I don't know,” Har­ry mut­tered, “odd stuffs been hap­pen­ing late­ly, hasn't it? It's been in the Dai­ly Prophet…the Dark Mark at the World Cup, and the Death Eaters and ev­ery­thing.…”

Both of Moody's mis­matched eyes widened.

“You're a sharp boy. Pot­ter,” he said. His mag­ical eye roved back to the Ma­raud­er's Map. “Crouch could be think­ing along those lines,” he said slow­ly. “Very pos­si­ble…there have been some fun­ny ru­mors fly­ing around late­ly - helped along by Ri­ta Skeeter, of course. It's mak­ing a lot of peo­ple ner­vous, I reck­on.” A grim smile twist­ed his lop­sid­ed mouth. “Oh if there's one thing I hate,” he mut­tered, more to him­self than to Har­ry, and his mag­ical eye was fixed on the left-​hand cor­ner of the map, “its a Death Eater who walked free.…”

Har­ry stared at him. Could Moody pos­si­bly mean what Har­ry thought he meant?

“And now I want to ask you a ques­tion. Pot­ter,” said Moody in a more busi­nesslike tone.

Har­ry's heart sank; he had thought this was com­ing. Moody was go­ing to ask where he had got this map, which was a very du­bi­ous mag­ical ob­ject - and the sto­ry of how it had fall­en in­to his hands in­crim­inat­ed not on­ly him, but his own fa­ther, Fred and George Weasley, and Pro­fes­sor Lupin, their last De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er. Moody waved the map in front of Har­ry, who braced him­self-

“Can I bor­row this?”

“Oh!” said Har­ry.

He was very fond of his map, but on the oth­er hand, he was ex­treme­ly re­lieved that Moody wasn't ask­ing where he'd got it, and there was no doubt that he owed Moody a fa­vor.

“Yeah, okay.”

“Good boy,” growled Moody. “I can make good use of this…this might be ex­act­ly what I've been look­ing for.…Right, bed, Pot­ter, come on, now.…”

They climbed to the top of the stairs to­geth­er, Moody still ex­am­in­ing the map as though it was a trea­sure the like of which he had nev­er seen be­fore. They walked in si­lence to the door of Moody's of­fice, where he stopped and looked up at Har­ry.

“You ev­er thought of a ca­reer as an Au­ror, Pot­ter?”

“No,” said Har­ry, tak­en aback.

“You want to con­sid­er it,” said Moody, nod­ding and look­ing at Har­ry thought­ful­ly. “Yes, in­deed…and in­ci­den­tal­ly…I'm guess­ing you wer­ent Just tak­ing that egg for a walk tonight?”

“Er - no,” said Har­ry, grin­ning. “I've been work­ing out the clue.”

Moody winked at him, his mag­ical eye go­ing hay­wire again. “Noth­ing like a night­time stroll to give you ideas, Pot­ter….See you in the morn­ing.…”

He went back in­to his of­fice, star­ing down at the Ma­raud­ers Map again, and closed the door be­hind him.

Har­ry walked slow­ly back to Gryffind­or Tow­er, lost in thought about Snape, and Crouch, and what it all meant.…Why was Crouch pre­tend­ing to be ill, if he could man­age to get to Hog­warts when he want­ed to? What did he think Snape was con­ceal­ing in his of­fice?

And Moody thought he. Har­ry, ought to be an Au­ror! In­ter­est­ing idea…but some­how. Har­ry thought, as he got qui­et­ly in­to his four-​poster ten min­utes lat­er, the egg and the cloak now safe­ly back in his trunk, he thought he'd like to check how scarred the rest of them were be­fore he chose it as a ca­reer.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX


THE SEC­OND TASK



“ Y ou said you'd al­ready worked out that egg clue!” said Hermione in­dig­nant­ly.

“Keep your voice down!” said Har­ry cross­ly. “I just need to - sort of fine-​tune it, all right?”

He, Ron, and Hermione were sit­ting at the very back of the Charms class with a ta­ble to them­selves. They were sup­posed to be prac­tic­ing the op­po­site of the Sum­mon­ing Charm to­day - the Ban­ish­ing Charm. Ow­ing to the po­ten­tial for nasty ac­ci­dents when ob­jects kept fly­ing across the room. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick had giv­en each stu­dent a stack of cush­ions on which to prac­tice, the the­ory be­ing that these wouldn't hurt any­one if they went off tar­get. It was a good the­ory, but it wasn't work­ing very well. Neville's aim was so poor that he kept ac­ci­den­tal­ly send­ing much heav­ier things fly­ing across the room - Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, for in­stance.

“Just for­get the egg for a minute, all right?” Har­ry hissed as Pro­fes­sor Flitwick went whizzing re­signed­ly past them, land­ing on top of a large cab­inet. “I'm try­ing to tell you about Snape and Moody.…”

This class was an ide­al cov­er for a pri­vate con­ver­sa­tion, as ev­ery­one was hav­ing far too much fun to pay them any at­ten­tion. Har­ry had been re­count­ing his ad­ven­tures of the pre­vi­ous night in whis­pered in­stall­ments for the last half hour.

“Snape said Moody's searched his of­fice as well?” Ron whis­pered, his eyes alight with in­ter­est as he Ban­ished a cush­ion with a sweep of his wand (it soared in­to the air and knocked Par­vati's hat off). “What…d'you reck­on Moody's here to keep an eye on Snape as well as Karkaroff?”

“Well, I dun­no if that's what Dum­ble­dore asked him to do, but he's def­inite­ly do­ing it,” said Har­ry, wav­ing his wand with­out pay­ing much at­ten­tion, so that his cush­ion did an odd sort of bel­ly flop off the desk. “Moody said Dum­ble­dore on­ly lets Snape stay here be­cause he's giv­ing him a sec­ond chance or some­thing.…”

“What?” said Ron, his eyes widen­ing, his next cush­ion spin­ning high in­to the air, ric­ochet­ing off the chan­de­lier, and drop­ping heav­ily on­to Flitwick's desk. “Har­ry…maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name in the Gob­let of Fire!”

“Oh Ron,” said Hermione, shak­ing her head scep­ti­cal­ly, “we thought Snape was try­ing to kill Har­ry be­fore, and it turned out he was sav­ing Har­ry's life, re­mem­ber?”

She Ban­ished a cush­ion and it flew across the room and land­ed in the box they were all sup­posed to be aim­ing at. Har­ry looked at Hermione, think­ing…it was true that Snape had saved his life once, but the odd thing was, Snape def­inite­ly loathed him, just as he'd loathed Har­ry's fa­ther when they had been at school to­geth­er. Snape loved tak­ing points from Har­ry, and had cer­tain­ly nev­er missed an op­por­tu­ni­ty to give him pun­ish­ments, or even to sug­gest that he should be sus­pend­ed from the school.

“I don't care what Moody says,” Hermione went on. “Dum­ble­dore's not stupid. He was right to trust Ha­grid and Pro­fes­sor Lupin, even though loads of peo­ple wouldn't have giv­en them jobs, so why shouldn't he be right about Snape, even if Snape is a bit -”

“- evil,” said Ron prompt­ly. “Come on, Hermione, why are all these Dark wiz­ard catch­ers search­ing his of­fice, then?”

“Why has Mr. Crouch been pre­tend­ing to be ill?” said Hermione, ig­nor­ing Ron. “Its a bit fun­ny, isn't it, that he cant man­age to come to the Yule Ball, but he can get up here in the mid­dle of the night when he wants to?”

“You just don't like Crouch be­cause of that elf, Winky,” said Ron, send­ing a cush­ion soar­ing in­to the win­dow.

“You just want to think Snape's up to some­thing,” said Hermione, send­ing her cush­ion zoom­ing neat­ly in­to the box.

“I just want to know what Snape did with his first chance, if he's on his sec­ond one,” said Har­ry grim­ly, and his cush­ion, to his very great sur­prise, flew straight across the room and land­ed neat­ly on top of Hermione's.



Obe­di­ent to Sir­ius's wish of hear­ing about any­thing odd at Hog­warts, Har­ry sent him a let­ter by brown owl that night, ex­plain­ing all about Mr. Crouch break­ing in­to Snape's of­fice, and Moody and Snape's con­ver­sa­tion. Then Har­ry turned his at­ten­tion in earnest to the most ur­gent prob­lem fac­ing him: how to sur­vive un­der­wa­ter for an hour on the twen­ty-​fourth of Febru­ary.

Ron quite liked the idea of us­ing the Sum­mon­ing Charm again - Har­ry had ex­plained about Aqua-​Lungs, and Ron couldn't see why Har­ry shouldn't Sum­mon one from the near­est Mug­gle town. Hermione squashed this plan by point­ing out that, in the un­like­ly event that Har­ry man­aged to learn how to op­er­ate an Aqua-​Lung with­in the set lim­it of an hour, he was sure to be dis­qual­ified for break­ing the In­ter­na­tion­al Code of Wiz­ard­ing Se­cre­cy - it was too much to hope that no Mug­gles would spot an Aqua-​Lung zoom­ing across the coun­try­side to Hog­warts.

“Of course, the ide­al so­lu­tion would be for you to Trans­fig­ure your­self in­to a sub­ma­rine or some­thing,” Hermione said. “If on­ly we'd done hu­man Trans­fig­ura­tion al­ready! But I don't think we start that un­til sixth year, and it can go bad­ly wrong if you don't know what you're do­ing.…”

“Yeah, I don't fan­cy walk­ing around with a periscope stick­ing out of my head,” said Har­ry. “I s'pose I could al­ways at­tack some­one in front of Moody; he might do it for me.…”

“I don't think he'd let you choose what you want­ed to be turned in­to, though,” said Hermione se­ri­ous­ly. “No, I think your best chance is some sort of charm.”

So Har­ry, think­ing that he would soon have had enough of the li­brary to last him a life­time, buried him­self once more among the dusty vol­umes, look­ing for any spell that might en­able a hu­man to sur­vive with­out oxy­gen. How­ev­er, though he, Ron, and Hermione searched through their lunchtimes, evenings, and whole week­ends - though Har­ry asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall for a note of per­mis­sion to use the Re­strict­ed Sec­tion, and even asked the ir­ri­ta­ble, vul­ture-​like li­brar­ian. Madam Pince, for help - they found noth­ing what­so­ev­er that would en­able Har­ry to spend an hour un­der­wa­ter and live to tell the tale.

Fa­mil­iar flut­ter­ings of pan­ic were start­ing to dis­turb Har­ry now, and he was find­ing it dif­fi­cult to con­cen­trate in class again. The lake, which Har­ry had al­ways tak­en for grant­ed as just an­oth­er fea­ture of the grounds, drew his eyes when­ev­er he was near a class­room win­dow, a great, iron-​gray mass of chilly wa­ter, whose dark and icy depths were start­ing to seem as dis­tant as the moon.

Just as it had be­fore he faced the Horn­tail, time was slip­ping away as though some­body had be­witched the clocks to go ex­tra-​fast. There was a week to go be­fore Febru­ary the twen­ty-​fourth (there was still time)…there were five days to go (he was bound to find some­thing soon)…three days to go (please let me find some­thing…please)…

With two days left. Har­ry start­ed to go off food again. The on­ly good thing about break­fast on Mon­day was the re­turn of the brown owl he had sent to Sir­ius. He pulled off the parch­ment, un­rolled it, and saw the short­est let­ter Sir­ius had ev­er writ­ten to him.



Send date of next Hogsmeade week­end by re­turn owl.



Har­ry turned the parch­ment over and looked at the back, hop­ing to see some­thing else, but it was blank.

“Week­end af­ter next,” whis­pered Hermione, who had read the note over Har­ry's shoul­der. “Here - take my quill and send this owl back straight away.”

Har­ry scrib­bled the dates down on the back of Sir­ius's let­ter, tied it on­to the brown owl's leg, and watched it take flight again. What had he ex­pect­ed? Ad­vice on how to sur­vive un­der­wa­ter? He had been so in­tent on telling Sir­ius all about Snape and Moody he had com­plete­ly for­got­ten to men­tion the egg's clue.

“What's he want to know about the next Hogsmeade week­end for?” said Ron.

“Dun­no,” said Har­ry dul­ly. The mo­men­tary hap­pi­ness that had flared in­side him at the sight of the owl had died. “Come on…Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures.”

Whether Ha­grid was try­ing to make up for the Blast-​End­ed Skrewts, or be­cause there were now on­ly two skrewts left, or be­cause he was try­ing to prove he could do any­thing that Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank could. Har­ry did­nt know, but Ha­grid had been con­tin­uing her lessons on uni­corns ev­er since he'd re­turned to work. It turned out that Ha­grid knew quite as much about uni­corns as he did about mon­sters, though it was clear that he found their lack of poi­sonous fangs dis­ap­point­ing.

To­day he had man­aged to cap­ture two uni­corn foals. Un­like full-​grown uni­corns, they were pure gold. Par­vati and Laven­der went in­to trans­ports of de­light at the sight of them, and even Pan­sy Parkin­son had to work hard to con­ceal how much she liked them.

“Eas­ier ter spot than the adults,” Ha­grid told the class. "They turn sil­ver when they're abou' two years old, an' they grow horns at aroun four. Don' go pure white till they're full grown, 'round about sev­en. They're a bit more trustin' when they're ba­bies…don' mind boys so much.…C'mon, move in a bit, yeh can pat 'em if yeh want…give 'em a few o' these sug­ar lumps.…

“You okay. Har­ry?” Ha­grid mut­tered, mov­ing aside slight­ly, while most of the oth­ers swarmed around the ba­by uni­corns.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Jus' ner­vous, eh?” said Ha­grid.

“Bit,” said Har­ry.

“Har­ry,” said Ha­grid, clap­ping a mas­sive hand on his shoul­der, so that Har­ry's knees buck­led un­der its weight, “I'd've bin wor­ried be­fore I saw yeh take on tha Horn­tail, but I know now yeh can do any­thin' yeh set yer mind ter. I'm not wor­ried at all. Yeh're goin ter be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven' yeh?”

Har­ry nod­ded, but even as he did so, an in­sane urge to con­fess that he didn't have any idea how to sur­vive at the bot­tom of the lake for an hour came over him. He looked up at Ha­grid - per­haps he had to go in­to the lake some­times, to deal with the crea­tures in it? He looked af­ter ev­ery­thing else on the grounds, af­ter all -

“Yeh're goin' ter win,” Ha­grid growled, pat­ting Har­ry's shoul­der again, so that Har­ry ac­tu­al­ly felt him­self sink a cou­ple of inch­es in­to the soft ground. “I know it. I can feel it. Yeh're goin' ter win, Har­ry.”

Har­ry just couldn't bring him­self to wipe the hap­py, con­fi­dent smile off Ha­grid's face. Pre­tend­ing he was in­ter­est­ed in the young uni­corns, he forced a smile in re­turn, and moved for­ward to pat them with the oth­ers.



By the evening be­fore the sec­ond task. Har­ry felt as though he were trapped in a night­mare. He was ful­ly aware that even if, by some mir­acle, he man­aged to find a suit­able spell, he'd have a re­al job mas­ter­ing it overnight. How could he have let this hap­pen? Why hadn't he got to work on the egg's clue soon­er? Why had he ev­er let his mind wan­der in class - what if a teach­er had once men­tioned how to breathe un­der­wa­ter?

He sat with Hermione and Ron in the li­brary as the sun set out­side, tear­ing fever­ish­ly through page af­ter page of spells, hid­den from one an­oth­er by the mas­sive piles of books on the desk in front of each of them. Har­ry's heart gave a huge leap ev­ery time he saw the word “wa­ter” on a page, but more of­ten than not it was mere­ly “Take two pints of wa­ter, half a pound of shred­ded man­drake leaves, and a newt…”

“I don't reck­on it can be done,” said Ron's voice flat­ly from the oth­er side of the ta­ble. “There's noth­ing. Noth­ing. Clos­est was that thing to dry up pud­dles and ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near pow­er­ful enough to drain the lake.”

“There must be some­thing,” Hermione mut­tered, mov­ing a can­dle clos­er to her. Her eyes were so tired she was por­ing over the tiny print of Olde and For­got­ten Be­witch­ments and Charmes with her nose about an inch from the page. “They'd nev­er have set a task that was un­doable.”

“They have,” said Ron. “Har­ry, just go down to the lake to­mor­row, right, stick your head in, yell at the mer­peo­ple to give back what­ev­er they've nicked, and see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate.”

“There's a way of do­ing it!” Hermione said cross­ly. “There just has to be!”

She seemed to be tak­ing the li­brary's lack of use­ful in­for­ma­tion on the sub­ject as a per­son­al in­sult; it had nev­er failed her be­fore.

“I know what I should have done,” said Har­ry, rest­ing, face-​down, on Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts. “I should've learned to be an An­ima­gus like Sir­ius.”

An An­ima­gus was a wiz­ard who could trans­form in­to an an­imal.

“Yeah, you could've turned in­to a gold­fish any time you want­ed!” said Ron.

“Or a frog,” yawned Har­ry. He was ex­haust­ed. “It takes years to be­come an An­ima­gus, and then you have to reg­is­ter your­self and ev­ery­thing,” said Hermione vague­ly, now squint­ing down the in­dex of Weird Wiz­ard­ing Dilem­mas and Their So­lu­tions. “Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told us, re­mem­ber…you've got to reg­is­ter your­self with the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice…what an­imal you be­come, and your mark­ings, so you can't abuse it…”

“…Hermione, I was jok­ing,” said Har­ry weari­ly. “I know I haven't got a chance of turn­ing in­to a frog by to­mor­row morn­ing.…”

“Oh this is no use,” Hermione said, snap­ping shut Weird Wiz­ard­ing Dilem­mas. “Who on earth wants to make their nose hair grow in­to ringlets?”

“I wouldn't mind,” said Fred Weasley's voice. “Be a talk­ing point, wouldn't it?”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione looked up. Fred and George had just emerged from be­hind some book­shelves.

“What're you two do­ing here?” Ron asked.

“Look­ing for you,” said George. “McG­ona­gall wants you, Ron. And you, Hermione.”

“Why?” said Hermione, look­ing sur­prised.

“Dun­no…she was look­ing a bit grim, though,” said Fred.

“We're sup­posed to take you down to her of­fice,” said George.

Ron and Hermione stared at Har­ry, who felt his stom­ach drop. Was Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall about to tell Ron and Hermione off? Per­haps she'd no­ticed how much they were help­ing him, when he ought to be work­ing out how to do the task alone?

“We'll meet you back in the com­mon room,” Hermione told Har­ry as she got up to go with Ron - both of them looked very anx­ious. “Bring as many of these books as you can, okay?”

“Right,” said Har­ry un­easi­ly.

By eight o'clock. Madam Pince had ex­tin­guished all the lamps and came to chivvy Har­ry out of the li­brary. Stag­ger­ing un­der the weight of as many books as he could car­ry, Har­ry re­turned to the Gryffind­or com­mon room, pulled a ta­ble in­to a cor­ner, and con­tin­ued to search. There was noth­ing in Mad­cap Mag­ic for Wacky War­locks…noth­ing in A Guide to Me­dieval Sor­cery…not one men­tion of un­der­wa­ter ex­ploits in An An­thol­ogy of Eigh­teenth-​Cen­tu­ry Charms, or in Dread­ful Denizens of the Deep, or Pow­ers You Nev­er Knew You Had and What to Do with Them Now You've Wised Up.

Crook­shanks crawled in­to Har­ry's lap and curled up, purring deeply. The com­mon room emp­tied slow­ly around Har­ry. Peo­ple kept wish­ing him luck for the next morn­ing in cheery, con­fi­dent voic­es like Ha­grid's, all of them ap­par­ent­ly con­vinced that he was about to pull off an­oth­er stun­ning per­for­mance like the one he had man­aged in the first task. Har­ry couldn't an­swer them, he just nod­ded, feel­ing as though there were a golf­ball stuck in his throat. By ten to mid­night, he was alone in the room with Crook­shanks. He had searched all the re­main­ing books, and Ron and Hermione had not come back.

It's over, he told him­self. You can't do it. You'll just have to go down to the lake in the morn­ing and tell the judges.…

He imag­ined him­self ex­plain­ing that he couldn't do the task. He pic­tured Bag­man's look of round-​eyed sur­prise, Karkaroffs sat­is­fied, yel­low-​toothed smile. He could al­most hear Fleur Dela­cour say­ing “I knew it…'e is too young, 'e is on­ly a lit­tle boy.” He saw Mal­foy flash­ing his POT­TER STINKS badge at the front of the crowd, saw Ha­grid's crest­fall­en, dis­be­liev­ing face.…

For­get­ting that Crook­shanks was on his lap. Har­ry stood up very sud­den­ly; Crook­shanks hissed an­gri­ly as he land­ed on the floor, gave Har­ry a dis­gust­ed look, and stalked away with his bot­tle­brush tail in the air, but Har­ry was al­ready hur­ry­ing up the spi­ral stair­case to his dor­mi­to­ry.…He would grab the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and go back to the li­brary, he'd stay there all night if he had to.…

“Lu­mos,” Har­ry whis­pered fif­teen min­utes lat­er as he opened the li­brary door.

Wand tip alight, he crept along the book­shelves, pulling down more books - books of hex­es and charms, books on mer­peo­ple and wa­ter mon­sters, books on fa­mous witch­es and wiz­ards, on mag­ical in­ven­tions, on any­thing at all that might in­clude one pass­ing ref­er­ence to un­der­wa­ter sur­vival. He car­ried them over to a ta­ble, then set to work, search­ing them by the nar­row beam of his wand, oc­ca­sion­al­ly check­ing his watch.…

One in the morn­ing…two in the morn­ing…the on­ly way he could keep go­ing was to tell him­self, over and over again, next book…in the next one…the next one…



The mer­maid in the paint­ing in the pre­fects' bath­room was laugh­ing. Har­ry was bob­bing like a cork in bub­bly wa­ter next to her rock, while she held his Fire­bolt over his head.

“Come and get it!” she gig­gled ma­li­cious­ly. “Come on, jump!”

“I can't,” Har­ry pant­ed, snatch­ing at the Fire­bolt, and strug­gling not to sink. “Give it to me!”

But she just poked him painful­ly in the side with the end of the broom­stick, laugh­ing at him.

“That hurts - get off - ouch -”

“Har­ry Pot­ter must wake up, sir!”

“Stop pok­ing me -”

“Dob­by must poke Har­ry Pot­ter, sir, he must wake up!”

Har­ry opened his eyes. He was still in the li­brary; the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak had slipped off his head as he'd slept, and the side of his face was stuck to the pages of Where There's a Wand, There's a Way. He sat up, straight­en­ing his glass­es, blink­ing in the bright day­light.

“Har­ry Pot­ter needs to hur­ry!” squeaked Dob­by. “The sec­ond task starts in ten min­utes, and Har­ry Pot­ter -”

“Ten min­utes?” Har­ry croaked. “Ten - ten min­utes?”

He looked down at his watch. Dob­by was right. It was twen­ty past nine. A large, dead weight seemed to fall through Har­ry's chest in­to his stom­ach.

“Hur­ry, Har­ry Pot­ter!” squeaked Dob­by, pluck­ing at Har­ry's sleeve. “You is sup­posed to be down by the lake with the oth­er cham­pi­ons, sir!”

“It's too late, Dob­by,” Har­ry said hope­less­ly. “I'm not do­ing the task, I don't know how -”

“Har­ry Pot­ter will do the task!” squeaked the elf. “Dob­by knew Har­ry had not found the right book, so Dob­by did it for him!”

“What?” said Har­ry. “But you don't know what the sec­ond task is -”

“Dob­by knows, sir! Har­ry Pot­ter has to go in­to the lake and find his Wheezy -”

“Find my what?”

“- and take his Wheezy back from the mer­peo­ple!”

“What's a Wheezy?”

“Your Wheezy, sir, your Wheezy-​Wheezy who is giv­ing Dob­by his sweater!”

Dob­by plucked at the shrunk­en ma­roon sweater he was now wear­ing over his shorts.

“What?” Har­ry gasped. “They've got…they've got Ron?”

“The thing Har­ry Pot­ter will miss most, sir!” squeaked Dob­by. “'But past an hour-'”

“- 'the prospect's black,'” Har­ry re­cit­ed, star­ing, hor­ror-​struck, at the elf. “'Too late, it's gone, it won't come back.' Dob­by - what've I got to do?”

“You has to eat this, sir!” squeaked the elf, and he put his hand in the pock­et of his shorts and drew out a ball of what looked like slimy, gray­ish-​green rat tails. “Right be­fore you go in­to the lake, sir - gilly­weed!”

“What's it do?” said Har­ry, star­ing at the gilly­weed.

“It will make Har­ry Pot­ter breathe un­der­wa­ter, sir!”

“Dob­by,” said Har­ry fran­ti­cal­ly, “lis­ten - are you sure about this?”

He couldn't quite for­get that the last time Dob­by had tried to “help” him, he had end­ed up with no bones in his right arm.

“Dob­by is quite sure, sir!” said the elf earnest­ly. “Dob­by hears things, sir, he is a house-​elf, he goes all over the cas­tle as he lights the fires and mops the floors. Dob­by heard Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall and Pro­fes­sor Moody in the staffroom, talk­ing about the next task.…Dob­by can­not let Har­ry Pot­ter lose his Wheezy!”

Har­ry's doubts van­ished. Jump­ing to his feet he pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, stuffed it in­to his bag, grabbed the gilly­weed, and put it in­to his pock­et, then tore out of the li­brary with Dob­by at his heels.

“Dob­by is sup­posed to be in the kitchens, sir!” Dob­by squealed as they burst in­to the cor­ri­dor. “Dob­by will be missed - good luck, Har­ry Pot­ter, sir, good luck!”

“See you lat­er, Dob­by!” Har­ry shout­ed, and he sprint­ed along the cor­ri­dor and down the stairs, three at a time.

The en­trance hall con­tained a few last-​minute strag­glers, all leav­ing the Great Hall af­ter break­fast and head­ing through the dou­ble oak doors to watch the sec­ond task. They stared as Har­ry flashed past, send­ing Col­in and Den­nis Creevey fly­ing as he leapt down the stone steps and out on­to the bright, chilly grounds.

As he pound­ed down the lawn he saw that the seats that had en­cir­cled the drag­ons' en­clo­sure in Novem­ber were now ranged along the op­po­site bank, ris­ing in stands that were packed to the burst­ing point and re­flect­ed in the lake be­low. The ex­cit­ed bab­ble of the crowd echoed strange­ly across the wa­ter as Har­ry ran flat-​out around the oth­er side of the lake to­ward the judges, who were sit­ting at an­oth­er gold-​draped ta­ble at the wa­ter's edge. Cedric, Fleur, and Krum were be­side the judges' ta­ble, watch­ing Har­ry sprint to­ward them.

“I'm…here…” Har­ry pant­ed, skid­ding to a halt in the mud and ac­ci­den­tal­ly splat­ter­ing Fleur's robes.

“Where have you been?” said a bossy, dis­ap­prov­ing voice. “The task's about to start!”

Har­ry looked around. Per­cy Weasley was sit­ting at the judges' ta­ble - Mr. Crouch had failed to turn up again.

“Now, now, Per­cy!” said Lu­do Bag­man, who was look­ing in­tense­ly re­lieved to see Har­ry. “Let him catch his breath!”

Dum­ble­dore smiled at Har­ry, but Karkaroff and Madame Maxime didn't look at all pleased to see him.…It was ob­vi­ous from the looks on their faces that they had thought he wasn't go­ing to turn up.

Har­ry bent over, hands on his knees, gasp­ing for breath; he had a stitch in his side that felt as though he had a knife be­tween his ribs, but there was no time to get rid of it; Lu­do Bag­man was now mov­ing among the cham­pi­ons, spac­ing them along the bank at in­ter­vals of ten feet. Har­ry was on the very end of the line, next to Krum, who was wear­ing swim­ming trunks and was hold­ing his wand ready.

“All right. Har­ry?” Bag­man whis­pered as he moved Har­ry a few feet far­ther away from Krum. “Know what you're go­ing to do?”

“Yeah,” Har­ry pant­ed, mas­sag­ing his ribs.

Bag­man gave Har­ry's shoul­der a quick squeeze and re­turned to the judges' ta­ble; he point­ed his wand at his throat as he had done at the World Cup, said, “Sonorus!” and his voice boomed out across the dark wa­ter to­ward the stands.

“Well, all our cham­pi­ons are ready for the sec­ond task, which will start on my whis­tle. They have pre­cise­ly an hour to re­cov­er what has been tak­en from them. On the count of three, then. One…two…three!”

The whis­tle echoed shril­ly in the cold, still air; the stands erupt­ed with cheers and ap­plause; with­out look­ing to see what the oth­er cham­pi­ons were do­ing, Har­ry pulled off his shoes and socks, pulled the hand­ful of gilly­weed out of his pock­et, stuffed it in­to his mouth, and wad­ed out in­to the lake.

It was so cold he felt the skin on his legs sear­ing as though this were fire, not icy wa­ter. His sod­den robes weighed him down as he walked in deep­er; now the wa­ter was over his knees, and his rapid­ly numb­ing feet were slip­ping over silt and flat, slimy stones. He was chew­ing the gilly­weed as hard and fast as he could; it felt un­pleas­ant­ly slimy and rub­bery, like oc­to­pus ten­ta­cles. Waist-​deep in the freez­ing wa­ter he stopped, swal­lowed, and wait­ed for some­thing to hap­pen.

He could hear laugh­ter in the crowd and knew he must look stupid, walk­ing in­to the lake with­out show­ing any sign of mag­ical pow­er. The part of him that was still dry was cov­ered in goose pim­ples; half im­mersed in the icy wa­ter, a cru­el breeze lift­ing his hair, Har­ry start­ed to shiv­er vi­olent­ly. He avoid­ed look­ing at the stands; the laugh­ter was be­com­ing loud­er, and there were cat­calls and jeer­ing from the Slytherins.…

Then, quite sud­den­ly, Har­ry felt as though an in­vis­ible pil­low had been pressed over his mouth and nose. He tried to draw breath, but it made his head spin; his lungs were emp­ty, and he sud­den­ly felt a pierc­ing pain on ei­ther side of his neck -

Har­ry clapped his hands around his throat and felt two large slits just be­low his ears, flap­ping in the cold air.…He had gills. With­out paus­ing to think, he did the on­ly thing that made sense - he flung him­self for­ward in­to the wa­ter.

The first gulp of icy lake wa­ter felt like the breath of life. His head had stopped spin­ning; he took an­oth­er great gulp of wa­ter and felt it pass smooth­ly through his gills, send­ing oxy­gen back to his brain. He stretched out his hands in front of him and stared at them. They looked green and ghost­ly un­der the wa­ter, and they had be­come webbed. He twist­ed around and looked at his bare feet - they had be­come elon­gat­ed and the toes were webbed too: It looked as though he had sprout­ed flip­pers.

The wa­ter didn't feel icy any­more ei­ther…on the con­trary, he felt pleas­ant­ly cool and very light.…Har­ry struck out once more, mar­veling at how far and fast his flip­per-​like feet pro­pelled him through the vater, and notic­ing how clear­ly he could see, and how he no longer seemed to need to blink. He had soon swum so far in­to the lake that he could no longer see the bot­tom. He flipped over and dived in­to its depths.

Si­lence pressed up­on his ears as he soared over a strange, dark, fog­gy land­scape. He could on­ly see ten feet around him, so that as he sped throu­ugh the wa­ter new scenes seemed to loom sud­den­ly out of the in­com­ing dark­ness: forests of rip­pling, tan­gled black weed, wide plains of mud lit­tered with dull, glim­mer­ing stones. He swam deep­er and deep­er, out to­ward the mid­dle of the lake, his eyes wide, star­ing through the eeri­ly gray-​lit wa­ter around him to the shad­ow be­yond, where the wa­ter be­came opaque.

Small fish flick­ered past him like sil­ver darts. Once or twice he thought he saw some­thing larg­er mov­ing ahead of him, but when he got near­er, he dis­cov­ered it to be noth­ing but a large, black­ened log, or a dense clump of weed. There was no sign of any of the oth­er cham­pi­ons, mer­peo­ple, Ron - nor, thank­ful­ly, the gi­ant squid.

Light green weed stretched ahead of him as far as he could see, two feet deep, like a mead­ow of very over­grown grass. Har­ry was star­ing un­blink­ing­ly ahead of him, try­ing to dis­cern shapes through the gloom…and then, with­out warn­ing, some­thing grabbed hold of his an­kle.

Har­ry twist­ed his body around and saw a grindy­low, a small, horned wa­ter de­mon, pok­ing out of the weed, its long fin­gers clutched tight­ly around Har­ry's leg, its point­ed fangs bared - Har­ry stuck his webbed hand quick­ly in­side his robes and fum­bled for his wand. By the time he had grasped it, two more grindy­lows had risen out of the weed, had seized hand­fuls of Har­ry's robes, and were at­tempt­ing to drag him down.

“Re­lashio!” Har­ry shout­ed, ex­cept that no sound came out.…A large bub­ble is­sued from his mouth, and his wand, in­stead of send­ing sparks at the grindy­lows, pelt­ed them with what seemed to be a jet of boil­ing wa­ter, for where it struck them, an­gry red patch­es ap­peared on their green skin. Har­ry pulled his an­kle out of the grindy­lows grip and swam, as fast as he could, oc­ca­sion­al­ly send­ing more jets of hot wa­ter over his shoul­der at ran­dom; ev­ery now and then he felt one of the grindy­lows snatch at his foot again, and he kicked out, hard; fi­nal­ly, he felt his foot con­nect with a horned skull, and look­ing back, saw the dazed grindy­low float­ing away, cross-​eyed, while its fel­lows shook their fists at Har­ry and sank back in­to the weed.

Har­ry slowed down a lit­tle, slipped his wand back in­side his robes, and looked around, lis­ten­ing again. He turned full cir­cle in the wa­ter, the si­lence press­ing hard­er than ev­er against his eardrums. He knew he must be even deep­er in the lake now, but noth­ing was mov­ing but the rip­pling weed.

“How are you get­ting on?”

Har­ry thought he was hav­ing a heart at­tack. He whipped around and saw Moan­ing Myr­tle float­ing hazi­ly in front of him, gaz­ing at him through her thick, pearly glass­es.

“Myr­tle!” Har­ry tried to shout - but once again, noth­ing came out of his mouth but a very large bub­ble. Moan­ing Myr­tle ac­tu­al­ly gig­gled.

“You want to try over there!” she said, point­ing. “I won't come with you.…I don't like them much, they al­ways chase me when I get too close.…”

Har­ry gave her the thumbs-​up to show his thanks and set off once more, care­ful to swim a bit high­er over the weed to avoid any more grindy­lows that might be lurk­ing there.

He swam on for what felt like at least twen­ty min­utes. He was pass­ing over vast ex­pans­es of black mud now, which swirled murk­ily as he dis­turbed the wa­ter. Then, at long last, he heard a snatch of haunt­ing mer­song.



"An hour long you'll have to look,

And to re­cov­er what we took…"



Har­ry swam faster and soon saw a large rock emerge out of the mud­dy wa­ter ahead. It had paint­ings of mer­peo­ple on it; they were car­ry­ing spears and chas­ing what looked like the gi­ant squid. Har­ry swam on past the rock, fol­low­ing the mer­song.



"…your time's half gone, so tar­ry not

Lest what you seek stays here to rot.…"



A clus­ter of crude stone dwellings stained with al­gae loomed sud­den­ly out of the gloom on all sides. Here and there at the dark win­dows, Har­ry saw faces…faces that bore no re­sem­blance at all to the paint­ing of the mer­maid in the pre­fects' bath­room.…

The mer­peo­ple had gray­ish skin and long, wild, dark green hair. Their eyes were yel­low, as were their bro­ken teeth, and they wore thick ropes of peb­bles around their necks. They leered at Har­ry as he swam past; one or two of them emerged from their caves to watch him bet­ter, their pow­er­ful, sil­ver fish tails beat­ing the wa­ter, spears clutched in their hands.

Har­ry sped on, star­ing around, and soon the dwellings be­came more nu­mer­ous; there were gar­dens of weed around some of them, and he even saw a pet grindy­low tied to a stake out­side one door. Mer­peo­ple were emerg­ing on all sides now, watch­ing him ea­ger­ly, point­ing at his webbed hands and gills, talk­ing be­hind their hands to one an­oth­er. Har­ry sped around a cor­ner and a very strange sight met his eyes.

A whole crowd of mer­peo­ple was float­ing in front of the hous­es that lined what looked like a mer-​ver­sion of a vil­lage square. A choir of mer­peo­ple was singing in the mid­dle, call­ing the cham­pi­ons to­ward them, and be­hind them rose a crude sort of stat­ue; a gi­gan­tic mer­per­son hewn from a boul­der. Four peo­ple were bound tight­ly to the tail of the stone mer­per­son.

Ron was tied be­tween Hermione and Cho Chang. There was al­so a girl who looked no old­er than eight, whose clouds of sil­very hair made Har­ry feel sure that she was Fleur Dela­cour's sis­ter. All four of them ap­peared to be in a very deep sleep. Their heads were lolling on­to their shoul­ders, and fine streams of bub­bles kept is­su­ing from their mouths.

Har­ry sped to­ward the hostages, half ex­pect­ing the mer­peo­ple to low­er their spears and charge at him, but they did noth­ing. The ropes of weed ty­ing the hostages to the stat­ue were thick, slimy, and very strong. For a fleet­ing sec­ond he thought of the knife Sir­ius had bought him for Christ­mas - locked in his trunk in the cas­tle a quar­ter of a mile away, no use to him what­so­ev­er.

He looked around. Many of the mer­peo­ple sur­round­ing them were car­ry­ing spears. He swam swift­ly to­ward a sev­en-​foot-​tall mer­man with a long green beard and a chok­er of shark fangs and tried to mime a re­quest to bor­row the spear. The mer­man laughed and shook his head.

“We do not help,” he said in a harsh, croaky voice.

“Come ON!” Har­ry said fierce­ly (but on­ly bub­bles is­sued from his mouth), and he tried to pull the spear away from the mer­man, but the mer­man yanked it back, still shak­ing his head and laugh­ing.

Har­ry swirled around, star­ing about. Some­thing sharp…any­thing…

There were rocks lit­ter­ing the lake bot­tom. He dived and snatched up a par­tic­ular­ly jagged one and re­turned to the stat­ue. He be­gan to hack at the ropes bind­ing Ron, and af­ter sev­er­al min­utes' hard work, they broke apart. Ron float­ed, un­con­scious, a few inch­es above the lake bot­tom, drift­ing a lit­tle in the ebb of the wa­ter.

Har­ry looked around. There was no sign of any of the oth­er cham­pi­ons. What were they play­ing at? Why didn't they hur­ry up? He turned back to Hermione, raised the jagged rock, and be­gan to hack at her bind­ings too -

At once, sev­er­al pairs of strong gray hands seized him. Half a dozen mer­men were pulling him away from Hermione, shak­ing their green-​haired heads, and laugh­ing.

“You take your own hostage,” one of them said to him. “Leave the oth­ers…”

“No way!” said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly - but on­ly two large bub­bles came out.

Your task is to re­trieve your own friend…leave the oth­ers…"

She's my friend too!“ Har­ry yelled, ges­tur­ing to­ward Hermione, an enor­mous sil­ver bub­ble emerg­ing sound­less­ly from his lips. ”And I don't want them to die ei­ther!"

Cho's head was on Hermione's shoul­der; the small sil­ver-​haired girl was ghost­ly green and pale. Har­ry strug­gled to fight off the mer­men, but they laughed hard­er than ev­er, hold­ing him back. Har­ry looked wild­ly around. Where were the oth­er cham­pi­ons? Would he have time to take Ron to the sur­face and come back down for Hermione and the oth­ers? Would he be able to find them again? He looked down at his watch to see how much time was left - it had stopped work­ing.

But then the mer­peo­ple around him point­ed ex­cit­ed­ly over his head. Har­ry looked up and saw Cedric swim­ming to­ward them. There was an enor­mous bub­ble around his head, which made his fea­tures look odd­ly wide and stretched.

“Got lost!” he mouthed, look­ing pan­ic-​strick­en. “Fleur and Krum're com­ing now!”

Feel­ing enor­mous­ly re­lieved, Har­ry watched Cedric pull a knife out of his pock­et and cut Cho free. He pulled her up­ward and out of sight.

Har­ry looked around, wait­ing. Where were Fleur and Krum? Time was get­ting short, and ac­cord­ing to the song, the hostages would be lost af­ter an hour.…

The mer­peo­ple start­ed screech­ing an­imat­ed­ly. Those hold­ing Har­ry loos­ened their grip, star­ing be­hind them. Har­ry turned and saw some­thing mon­strous cut­ting through the wa­ter to­ward them: a hu­man body in swim­ming trunks with the head of a shark.…It was Krum. He ap­peared to have trans­fig­ured him­self - but bad­ly.

The shark-​man swam straight to Hermione and be­gan snap­ping and bit­ing at her ropes; the trou­ble was that Krum's new teeth were po­si­tioned very awk­ward­ly for bit­ing any­thing small­er than a dol­phin, and Har­ry was quite sure that if Krum wasn't care­ful, he was go­ing to rip Hermione in half. Dart­ing for­ward. Har­ry hit Krum hard on the shoul­der and held up the jagged stone. Krum seized it and be­gan to cut Hermione free. With­in sec­onds, he had done it; he grabbed Hermione around the waist, and with­out a back­ward glance, be­gan to rise rapid­ly with her to­ward the sur­face.

Now what? Har­ry thought des­per­ate­ly. If he could be sure that Fleur was com­ing.…But still no sign. There was noth­ing to be done ex­cept…

He snatched up the stone, which Krum had dropped, but the mer­men now closed in around Ron and the lit­tle girl, shak­ing their heads at him. Har­ry pulled out his wand.

“Get out of the way!”

On­ly bub­bles flew out of his mouth, but he had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that the mer­men had un­der­stood him, be­cause they sud­den­ly stopped laugh­ing. Their yel­low­ish eyes were fixed up­on Har­ry's wand, and they looked scared. There might be a lot more of them than there were of him, but Har­ry could tell, by the looks on their faces, that they knew no more mag­ic than the gi­ant squid did.

“You've got un­til three!” Har­ry shout­ed; a great stream of bub­bles burst from him, but he held up three fin­gers to make sure they got the mes­sage. “One…” (he put down a fin­ger) “two…”(he put down a sec­ond one) -

They scat­tered. Har­ry dart­ed for­ward and be­gan to hack at the ropes bind­ing the small girl to the stat­ue, and at last she was free. He seized the lit­tle girl around the waist, grabbed the neck of Ron's robes, and kicked off from the bot­tom.

It was very slow work. He could no longer use his webbed hands to pro­pel him­self for­ward; he worked his flip­pers fu­ri­ous­ly, but Ron and Fleur's sis­ter were like pota­to-​filled sacks drag­ging him back down.…He fixed his eyes sky­ward, though he knew he must still be very deep, the wa­ter above him was so dark.…

Mer­peo­ple were ris­ing with him. He could see them swirling around him with ease, watch­ing him strug­gle through the wa­ter.…Would they pull him back down to the depths when the time was up? Did they per­haps eat hu­mans? Har­ry's legs were seiz­ing up with the ef­fort to keep swim­ming; his shoul­ders were aching hor­ri­bly with the ef­fort of drag­ging Ron and the girl…

He was draw­ing breath with ex­treme dif­fi­cul­ty. He could feel pain on the sides of his neck again…he was be­com­ing very aware of how wet the wa­ter was in his mouth…yet the dark­ness was def­inite­ly thin­ning now…he could see day­light above him.…

He kicked hard with his flip­pers and dis­cov­ered that they were noth­ing more than feet…wa­ter was flood­ing through his mouth in­to his lungs…he was start­ing to feel dizzy, but he knew light and air were on­ly ten feet above him…he had to get there…he had to…

Har­ry kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as though his mus­cles were scream­ing in protest; his very brain felt wa­ter­logged, he couldn't breathe, he need­ed oxy­gen, he had to keep go­ing, he could not stop -

And then he felt his head break the sur­face of the lake; won­der­ful, cold, clear air was mak­ing his wet face sting; he gulped it down, feel­ing as though he had nev­er breathed prop­er­ly be­fore, and, pant­ing, pulled Ron and the lit­tle girl up with him. All around him, wild, green-​haired heads were emerg­ing out of the wa­ter with him, but they were smil­ing at him.

The crowd in the stands was mak­ing a great deal of noise; shout­ing and scream­ing, they all seemed to be on their feet; Har­ry had the im­pres­sion they thought that Ron and the lit­tle girl might be dead, but they were wrong…both of them had opened their eyes; the girl looked scared and con­fused, but Ron mere­ly ex­pelled a great spout of wa­ter, blinked in the bright light, turned to Har­ry, and said, “Wet, this, isn't it?” Then he spot­ted Fleur's sis­ter. “What did you bring her for?”

“Fleur didn't turn up, I couldn't leave her,” Har­ry pant­ed.

“Har­ry, you prat,” said Ron, “you didn't take that song thing se­ri­ous­ly, did you? Dum­ble­dore wouldn't have let any of us drown!”

“The song said -”

“It was on­ly to make sure you got back in­side the time lim­it!” said Ron. “I hope you didn't waste time down there act­ing the hero!”

Har­ry felt both stupid and an­noyed. It was all very well for Ron; he'd been asleep, he hadn't felt how eerie it was down in the lake, sur­round­ed by spear-​car­ry­ing mer­peo­ple who'd looked more than ca­pa­ble of mur­der.

“C'mon,” Har­ry said short­ly, “help me with her, I don't think she can swim very well.”

They pulled Fleur's sis­ter through the wa­ter, back to­ward the bank where the judges stood watch­ing, twen­ty mer­peo­ple ac­com­pa­ny­ing them like a guard of hon­or, singing their hor­ri­ble screechy songs.

Har­ry could see Madam Pom­frey fuss­ing over Hermione, Krum, Cedric, and Cho, all of whom were wrapped in thick blan­kets.

Dum­ble­dore and Lu­do Bag­man stood beam­ing at Har­ry and Ron from the bank as they swam near­er, but Per­cy, who looked very white and some­how much younger than usu­al, came splash­ing out to meet them. Mean­while Madame Maxime was try­ing to re­strain Fleur Dela­cour, who was quite hys­ter­ical, fight­ing tooth and nail to re­turn to the wa­ter.

“Gabrielle! Gabrielle! Is she alive? Is she 'urt?”

“She's fine!” Har­ry tried to tell her, but he was so ex­haust­ed he could hard­ly talk, let alone shout.

Per­cy seized Ron and was drag­ging him back to the bank (“Ger­roff, Per­cy, I'm all right!”); Dum­ble­dore and Bag­man were pulling Har­ry up­right; Fleur had bro­ken free of Madame Maxime and was hug­ging her sis­ter.

“It was ze grindy­lows…zey at­tacked me…oh Gabrielle, I thought…I thought…”

“Come here, you,” said Madam Pom­frey. She seized Har­ry and pulled him over to Hermione and the oth­ers, wrapped him so tight­ly in a blan­ket that he felt as though he were in a strait­jack­et, and forced a mea­sure of very hot po­tion down his throat. Steam gushed out of his ears.

“Har­ry, well done!” Hermione cried. “You did it, you found out how all by your­self!”

“Well -” said Har­ry. He would have told her about Dob­by, but he had just no­ticed Karkaroff watch­ing him. He was the on­ly judge who had not left the ta­ble; the on­ly judge not show­ing signs of plea­sure and re­lief that Har­ry, Ron, and Fleur's sis­ter had got back safe­ly. “Yeah, that's right,” said Har­ry, rais­ing his voice slight­ly so that Karkaroff could hear him.

“You haff a wa­ter bee­tle in your hair, Herm-​own-​nin­ny,” said Krum. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Krum was draw­ing her at­ten­tion back on­to him­self; per­haps to re­mind her that he had just res­cued her from the lake, but Hermione brushed away the bee­tle im­pa­tient­ly and said, “You're well out­side the time lim­it, though, Har­ry.…Did it take you ages to find us?”

“No…I found you okay.…”

Har­ry's feel­ing of stu­pid­ity was grow­ing. Now he was out of the wa­ter, it seemed per­fect­ly clear that Dum­ble­dores safe­ty pre­cau­tions wouldn't have per­mit­ted the death of a hostage just be­cause their cham­pi­on hadn't turned up. Why hadn't he just grabbed Ron and gone? He would have been first back.…Cedric and Krum hadn't wast­ed time wor­ry­ing about any­one else; they hadn't tak­en the mer­song se­ri­ous­ly.…

Dum­ble­dore was crouch­ing at the wa­ter's edge, deep in con­ver­sa­tion with what seemed to be the chief mer­per­son, a par­tic­ular­ly wild and fe­ro­cious-​look­ing fe­male. He was mak­ing the same sort of screechy nois­es that the mer­peo­ple made when they were above wa­ter; clear­ly, Dum­ble­dore could speak Mer­mish. Fi­nal­ly he straight­ened up, turned to his fel­low judges, and said, “A con­fer­ence be­fore we give the marks, I think.”

The judges went in­to a hud­dle. Madam Pom­frey had gone to res­cue Ron from Per­cy's clutch­es; she led him over to Har­ry and the oth­ers, gave him a blan­ket and some Pep­pe­rup Po­tion, then went to fetch Fleur and her sis­ter. Fleur had many cuts on her face and arms and her robes were torn, but she didn't seem to care, nor would she al­low Madam Pom­frey to clean them.

“Look af­ter Gabrielle,” she told her, and then she turned to Har­ry. “You saved 'er,” she said breath­less­ly. “Even though she was not your 'os­tage.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, who was now hearti­ly wish­ing he'd left all three girls tied to the stat­ue.

Fleur bent down, kissed Har­ry twice on each cheek (he felt his face burn and wouldn't have been sur­prised if steam was com­ing out of his ears again), then said to Ron, “And you too-​you 'elped -”

“Yeah,” said Ron, look­ing ex­treme­ly hope­ful, “yeah, a bit -”

Fleur swooped down on him too and kissed him. Hermione looked sim­ply fu­ri­ous, but just then, Lu­do Bag­man's mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied voice boomed out be­side them, mak­ing them all jump, and caus­ing the crowd in the stands to go very qui­et.

"Ladies and gen­tle­men, we have reached our de­ci­sion. Mer­chief­tai­ness Mur­cus has told us ex­act­ly what hap­pened at the bot­tom of the lake, and we have there­fore de­cid­ed to award marks out of fifty for each of the cham­pi­ons, as fol­lows.…

“Fleur Dela­cour, though she demon­strat­ed ex­cel­lent use of the Bub­ble-​Head Charm, was at­tacked by grindy­lows as she ap­proached her goal, and failed to re­trieve her hostage. We award her twen­ty-​five points.”

Ap­plause from the stands.

“I de­served ze­ro,” said Fleur throat­ily, shak­ing her mag­nif­icent head.

“Cedric Dig­gory, who al­so used the Bub­ble-​Head Charm, was first to re­turn with his hostage, though he re­turned one minute out­side the time lim­it of an hour.” Enor­mous cheers from the Huf­flepuffs in the crowd; Har­ry saw Cho give Cedric a glow­ing look. “We there­fore award him forty-​sev­en points.”

Har­ry's heart sank. If Cedric had been out­side the time lim­it, he most cer­tain­ly had been.

“Vik­tor Krum used an in­com­plete form of Trans­fig­ura­tion, which was nev­er­the­less ef­fec­tive, and was sec­ond to re­turn with his hostage. We award him forty points.”

Karkaroff clapped par­tic­ular­ly hard, look­ing very su­pe­ri­or.

“Har­ry Pot­ter used gilly­weed to great ef­fect,” Bag­man con­tin­ued. “He re­turned last, and well out­side the time lim­it of an hour. How­ev­er, the Mer­chief­tai­ness in­forms us that Mr. Pot­ter was first to reach the hostages, and that the de­lay in his re­turn was due to his de­ter­mi­na­tion to re­turn all hostages to safe­ty, not mere­ly his own.”

Ron and Hermione both gave Har­ry half-​ex­as­per­at­ed, half-​com­mis­er­at­ing looks.

“Most of the judges,” and here, Bag­man gave Karkaroff a very nasty look, “feel that this shows moral fiber and mer­its full marks. How­ev­er…Mr. Pot­ter's score is forty-​five points.”

Har­ry's stom­ach leapt - he was now ty­ing for first place with Cedric. Ron and Hermione, caught by sur­prise, stared at Har­ry, then laughed and start­ed ap­plaud­ing hard with the rest of the crowd.

“There you go. Har­ry!” Ron shout­ed over the noise. “You weren't be­ing thick af­ter all - you were show­ing moral fiber!”

Fleur was clap­ping very hard too, but Krum didn't look hap­py at all. He at­tempt­ed to en­gage Hermione in con­ver­sa­tion again, but she was too busy cheer­ing Har­ry to lis­ten.

“The third and fi­nal task will take place at dusk on the twen­ty-​fourth of June,” con­tin­ued Bag­man. “The cham­pi­ons will be no­ti­fied of what is com­ing pre­cise­ly one month be­fore­hand. Thank you all for your sup­port of the cham­pi­ons.”

It was over. Har­ry thought dazed­ly, as Madam Pom­frey be­gan herd­ing the cham­pi­ons and hostages back to the cas­tle to get in­to dry clothes…it was over, he had got through…he didn't have to wor­ry about any­thing now un­til June the twen­ty-​fourth….

Next time he was in Hogsmeade, Har­ry de­cid­ed as he walked back up the stone steps in­to the cas­tle, he was go­ing to buy Dob­by a pair of socks for ev­ery day of the year.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN


PAD­FOOT RE­TURNS



O ne of the best things about the af­ter­math of the sec­ond task was that ev­ery­body was very keen to hear de­tails of what had hap­pened down in the lake, which meant that Ron was get­ting to share Har­ry's lime­light for once. Har­ry no­ticed that Ron's ver­sion of events changed sub­tly with ev­ery retelling. At first, he gave what seemed to be the truth; it tal­lied with Hermione's sto­ry, any­way - Dum­ble­dore had put all the hostages in­to a be­witched sleep in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's of­fice, first as­sur­ing them that they would be quite safe, and would awake when they were back above the wa­ter. One week lat­er, how­ev­er, Ron was telling a thrilling tale of kid­nap in which he strug­gled sin­gle-​hand­ed­ly against fifty heav­ily armed mer­peo­ple who had to beat him in­to sub­mis­sion be­fore ty­ing him up.

“But I had my wand hid­den up my sleeve,” he as­sured Pad­ma Patil, who seemed to be a lot keen­er on Ron now that he was get­ting so much at­ten­tion and was mak­ing a point of talk­ing to him ev­ery time they passed in the cor­ri­dors. “I could've tak­en those mer-​id­iots any time I want­ed.”

“What were you go­ing to do, snore at them?” said Hermione waspish­ly. Peo­ple had been teas­ing her so much about be­ing the thing that Vik­tor Krum would most miss that she was in a rather tetchy mood.

Ron's ears went red, and there­after, he re­vert­ed to the be­witched sleep ver­sion of events.

As they en­tered March the weath­er be­came dri­er, but cru­el winds skinned their hands and faces ev­ery time they went out on­to the grounds. There were de­lays in the post be­cause the owls kept be­ing blown off course. The brown owl that Har­ry had sent to Sir­ius with the dates of the Hogsmeade week­end turned up at break­fast on Fri­day morn­ing with half its feath­ers stick­ing up the wrong way; Har­ry had no soon­er torn off Sir­ius's re­ply than it took flight, clear­ly afraid it was go­ing to be sent out­side again.

Sir­ius's let­ter was al­most as short as the pre­vi­ous one.



Be at stile at end of road out of Hogsmeade (past Dervish and Banges) at two o'clock on Sat­ur­day af­ter­noon. Bring as much food as you can.



“He hasn't come back to Hogsmeade?” said Ron in­cred­ulous­ly.

“It looks like it, doesn't it?” said Hermione.

“I can't be­lieve him,” said Har­ry tense­ly, “if he's caught…”

“Made it so far, though, hasn't he?” said Ron. “And it's not like the place is swarm­ing with de­men­tors any­more.”

Har­ry fold­ed up the let­ter, think­ing. If he was hon­est with him­self, he re­al­ly want­ed to see Sir­ius again. He there­fore ap­proached the fi­nal les­son of the af­ter­noon - dou­ble Po­tions - feel­ing con­sid­er­ably more cheer­ful than he usu­al­ly did when de­scend­ing the steps to the dun­geons.

Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle were stand­ing in a hud­dle out­side the class­room door with Pan­sy Parkin­son's gang of Slytherin girls. All of them were look­ing at some­thing Har­ry couldn't see and snig­ger­ing hearti­ly. Pan­sys pug-​like face peered ex­cit­ed­ly around Goyle's broad back as Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione ap­proached.

“There they are, there they are!” she gig­gled, and the knot of Slytherins broke apart. Har­ry saw that Pan­sy had a mag­azine in her hands - Witch Week­ly. The mov­ing pic­ture on the front showed a curly-​haired witch who was smil­ing toothily and point­ing at a large sponge cake with her wand.

“You might find some­thing to in­ter­est you in there, Granger!” Pan­sy said loud­ly, and she threw the mag­azine at Hermione, who caught it, look­ing star­tled. At that mo­ment, the dun­geon door opened, and Snape beck­oned them all in­side.

Hermione, Har­ry, and Ron head­ed for a ta­ble at the back of the dun­geon as usu­al. Once Snape had turned his back on them to write up the in­gre­di­ents of to­days po­tion on the black­board, Hermione hasti­ly ri­fled through the mag­azine un­der the desk. At last, in the cen­ter pages, Hermione found what they were look­ing for. Har­ry and Ron leaned in clos­er. A col­or pho­to­graph of Har­ry head­ed a short piece en­ti­tled:



Har­ry Pot­ter's Se­cret Heartache

A boy like no oth­er, per­haps - yet a boy suf­fer­ing all the usu­al pangs of ado­les­cence, writes Ri­ta Skeeter. De­prived of love since the trag­ic demise of his par­ents, four­teen-​year-​old Har­ry Pot­ter thought he had found so­lace in his steady girl­friend at Hog­warts, Mug­gle-​born Hermione Granger. Lit­tle did he know that he would short­ly be suf­fer­ing yet an­oth­er emo­tion­al blow in a life al­ready lit­tered with per­son­al loss.

Miss Granger, a plain but am­bi­tious girl, seems to have a taste for fa­mous wiz­ards that Har­ry alone can­not sat­is­fy. Since the ar­rival at Hog­warts of Vik­tor Krum, Bul­gar­ian Seek­er and hero of the last World Quid­ditch Cup, Miss Granger has been toy­ing with both boys' af­fec­tions. Krum, who is open­ly smit­ten with the de­vi­ous Miss Granger, has al­ready in­vit­ed her to vis­it him in Bul­gar­ia over the sum­mer hol­idays, and in­sists that he has “nev­er felt this way about any oth­er girl.”

How­ev­er, it might not be Miss Granger's doubt­ful nat­ural charms that have cap­tured these un­for­tu­nate boys' in­ter­est.

“She's re­al­ly ug­ly,” says Pan­sy Parkin­son, a pret­ty and vi­va­cious fourth-​year stu­dent, “but she'd be well up to mak­ing a Love Po­tion, she's quite brainy. I think that's how she's do­ing it.”

Love Po­tions are, of course, banned at Hog­warts, and no doubt Al­bus Dum­ble­dore will want to in­ves­ti­gate these claims. In the mean­time, Har­ry Pot­ters well-​wish­ers must hope that, next time, he be­stows his heart on a wor­thi­er can­di­date.



“I told you!” Ron hissed at Hermione as she stared down at the ar­ti­cle. “I told you not to an­noy Ri­ta Skeeter! She's made you out to be some sort of- of scar­let wom­an!”

Hermione stopped look­ing as­ton­ished and snort­ed with laugh­ter. “Scar­let wom­an?” she re­peat­ed, shak­ing with sup­pressed gig­gles as she looked around at Ron.

“It's what my mum calls them,” Ron mut­tered, his ears go­ing red.

“If that's the best Ri­ta can do, she's los­ing her touch,” said Hermione, still gig­gling, as she threw Witch Week­ly on­to the emp­ty chair be­side her. “What a pile of old rub­bish.”

She looked over at the Slytherins, who were all watch­ing her and Har­ry close­ly across the room to see if they had been up­set by the ar­ti­cle. Hermione gave them a sar­cas­tic smile and a wave, and she, Har­ry, and Ron start­ed un­pack­ing the in­gre­di­ents they would need for their Wit-​Sharp­en­ing Po­tion.

“There's some­thing fun­ny, though,” said Hermione ten min­utes lat­er, hold­ing her pes­tle sus­pend­ed over a bowl of scarab bee­tles. “How could Ri­ta Skeeter have known…?”

“Known what?” said Ron quick­ly. “You haven't been mix­ing up Love Po­tions, have you?”

“Don't be stupid,” Hermione snapped, start­ing to pound up her bee­tles again. “No, it's just…how did she know Vik­tor asked me to vis­it him over the sum­mer?”

Hermione blushed scar­let as she said this and de­ter­mined­ly avoid­ed Ron's eyes.

“What?” said Ron, drop­ping his pes­tle with a loud clunk.

“He asked me right af­ter he'd pulled me out of the lake.”

Hermione mut­tered. “Af­ter he'd got rid of his shark's head. Madam Pom­frey gave us both blan­kets and then he sort of pulled me away from the judges so they wouldn't hear, and he said, if I wasn't do­ing any­thing over the sum­mer, would I like to -”

“And what did you say?” said Ron, who had picked up his pes­tle and was grind­ing it on the desk, a good six inch­es from his bowl, be­cause he was look­ing at Hermione.

“And he did say he'd nev­er felt the same way about any­one else,” Hermione went on, go­ing so red now that Har­ry could al­most feel the heat com­ing from her, “but how could Ri­ta Skeeter have heard him? She wasn't there…or was she? Maybe she has got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak; maybe she sneaked on­to the grounds to watch the sec­ond task.…”

“And what did you say?” Ron re­peat­ed, pound­ing his pes­tle down so hard that it dent­ed the desk.

“Well, I was too busy see­ing whether you and Har­ry were okay to -”

“Fas­ci­nat­ing though your so­cial life un­doubt­ed­ly is. Miss Granger,” said an icy voice right be­hind them, and all three of them jumped, “I must ask you not to dis­cuss it in my class. Ten points from Gryffind­or.”

Snape had glid­ed over to their desk while they were talk­ing. The whole class was now look­ing around at them; Mal­foy took the op­por­tu­ni­ty to flash POT­TER STINKS across the dun­geon at Har­ry.

“Ah…read­ing mag­azines un­der the ta­ble as well?” Snape added, snatch­ing up the copy of Witch Week­ly. “A fur­ther ten points from Gryffind­or…oh but of course…” Snape's black eyes glit­tered as they fell on Ri­ta Skeeter's ar­ti­cle. “Pot­ter has to keep up with his press cut­tings.…”

The dun­geon rang with the Slytherins' laugh­ter, and an un­pleas­ant smile curled Snape's thin mouth. To Har­ry's fury, he be­gan to read the ar­ti­cle aloud.

“'Har­ry Pot­ter's Se­cret Heartache…dear, dear. Pot­ter, what's ail­ing you now? 'A boy like no oth­er, per­haps…'”

Har­ry could feel his face burn­ing. Snape was paus­ing at the end of ev­ery sen­tence to al­low the Slytherins a hearty laugh. The ar­ti­cle sound­ed ten times worse when read by Snape. Even Hermione was blush­ing scar­let now.

“'…Har­ry Pot­ter's well-​wish­ers must hope that, next time, he be­stows his heart up­on a wor­thi­er can­di­date.' How very touch­ing,” sneered Snape, rolling up the mag­azine to con­tin­ued gales of laugh­ter from the Slytherins. “Well, I think I had bet­ter sep­arate the three of you, so you can keep your minds on your po­tions rather than on your tan­gled love lives. Weasley, you stay here. Miss Granger, over there, be­side Miss Parkin­son. Pot­ter - that ta­ble in front of my desk. Move. Now.”

Fu­ri­ous, Har­ry threw his in­gre­di­ents and his bag in­to his caul­dron and dragged it up to the front of the dun­geon to the emp­ty ta­ble. Snape fol­lowed, sat down at his desk and watched Har­ry un­load his caul­dron. De­ter­mined not to look at Snape, Har­ry re­sumed the mash­ing of his scarab bee­tles, imag­in­ing each one to have Snape's face.

“All this press at­ten­tion seems to have in­flat­ed your al­ready over-​large head. Pot­ter,” said Snape qui­et­ly, once the rest of the class had set­tled down again.

Har­ry didn't an­swer. He knew Snape was try­ing to pro­voke him; he had done this be­fore. No doubt he was hop­ing for an ex­cuse to take a round fifty points from Gryffind­or be­fore the end of the class.

“You might be la­bor­ing un­der the delu­sion that the en­tire wiz­ard­ing world is im­pressed with you,” Snape went on, so qui­et­ly that no one else could hear him (Har­ry con­tin­ued to pound his scarab bee­tles, even though he had al­ready re­duced them to a very fine pow­der), “but I don't care how many times your pic­ture ap­pears in the pa­pers. To me. Pot­ter, you are noth­ing but a nasty lit­tle boy who con­sid­ers rules to be be­neath him.”

Har­ry tipped the pow­dered bee­tles in­to his caul­dron and start­ed cut­ting up his gin­ger roots. His hands were shak­ing slight­ly out of anger, but he kept his eyes down, as though he couldn't hear what Snape was say­ing to him.

“So I give you fair warn­ing, Pot­ter,” Snape con­tin­ued in a sorter and more dan­ger­ous voice, “pint-​sized celebri­ty or not - if I catch you break­ing in­to my of­fice one more time -”

“I haven't been any­where near your of­fice!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly, for­get­ting his feigned deaf­ness.

“Don't lie to me,” Snape hissed, his fath­om­less black eyes bor­ing in­to Har­ry's. “Boom­slang skin. Gilly­weed. Both come from my pri­vate stores, and I know who stole them.”

Har­ry stared back at Snape, de­ter­mined not to blink or to look guilty. In truth, he hadn't stolen ei­ther of these things from Snape. Hermione had tak­en the boom­slang skin back in their sec­ond year - they had need­ed it for the Polyjuice Po­tion - and while Snape had sus­pect­ed Har­ry at the time, he had nev­er been able to prove it. Dob­by, of course, had stolen the gilly­weed.

“I don't know what you're talk­ing about,” Har­ry lied cold­ly.

“You were out of bed on the night my of­fice was bro­ken in­to!” Snape hissed. “I know it. Pot­ter! Now, Mad-​Eye Moody might have joined your fan club, but I will not tol­er­ate your be­hav­ior! One more night­time stroll in­to my of­fice, Pot­ter, and you will pay!”

“Right,” said Har­ry cool­ly, turn­ing back to his gin­ger roots. “I'll bear that in mind if I ev­er get the urge to go in there.”

Snape's eyes flashed. He plunged a hand in­to the in­side of his black robes. For one wild mo­ment. Har­ry thought Snape was about to pull out his wand and curse him - then he saw that Snape had drawn out a small crys­tal bot­tle of a com­plete­ly clear po­tion. Har­ry stared at it.

“Do you know what this is. Pot­ter?” Snape said, his eyes glit­ter­ing dan­ger­ous­ly again.

“No,” said Har­ry, with com­plete hon­esty this time.

“It is Ver­itaserum - a Truth Po­tion so pow­er­ful that three drops would have you spilling your in­ner­most se­crets for this en­tire class to hear,” said Snape vi­cious­ly. “Now, the use of this po­tion is con­trolled by very strict Min­istry guide­lines. But un­less you watch your step, you might just find that my hand slips” - he shook the crys­tal bot­tle slight­ly - “right over your evening pump­kin juice. And then. Pot­ter…then we'll find out whether you've been in my of­fice or not.”

Har­ry said noth­ing. He turned back to his gin­ger roots once more, picked up his knife, and start­ed slic­ing them again. He didn't like the sound of that Truth Po­tion at all, nor would he put it past Snape to slip him some. He re­pressed a shud­der at the thought of what might come spilling out of his mouth if Snape did it…quite apart from land­ing a whole lot of peo­ple in trou­ble - Hermione and Dob­by for a start - there were all the oth­er things he was con­ceal­ing…like the fact that he was in con­tact with Sir­ius…and - his in­sides squirmed at the thought - how he felt about Cho.…He tipped his gin­ger roots in­to the caul­dron too, and won­dered whether he ought to take a leaf out of Moody's book and start drink­ing on­ly from a pri­vate hip flask.

There was a knock on the dun­geon door.

“En­ter,” said Snape in his usu­al voice.

The class looked around as the door opened. Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff came in. Ev­ery­one watched him as he walked up to­ward Snape's desk. He was twist­ing his fin­ger around his goa­tee and look­ing ag­itat­ed.

“We need to talk,” said Karkaroff abrupt­ly when he had reached Snape. He seemed so de­ter­mined that no­body should hear what he was say­ing that he was bare­ly open­ing his lips; it was as though he were a rather poor ven­tril­oquist. Har­ry kept his eyes on his gin­ger roots, lis­ten­ing hard.

“I'll talk to you af­ter my les­son, Karkaroff,” Snape mut­tered, but Karkaroff in­ter­rupt­ed him.

“I want to talk now, while you can't slip off, Severus. You've been avoid­ing me.”

“Af­ter the les­son,” Snape snapped.

Un­der the pre­text of hold­ing up a mea­sur­ing cup to see if he'd poured out enough ar­madil­lo bile, Har­ry sneaked a side­long glance at the pair of them. Karkaroff looked ex­treme­ly wor­ried, and Snape looked an­gry.

Karkaroff hov­ered be­hind Snape's desk for the rest of the dou­ble pe­ri­od. He seemed in­tent on pre­vent­ing Snape from slip­ping away at the end of class. Keen to hear what Karkaroff want­ed to say, Har­ry de­lib­er­ate­ly knocked over his bot­tle of ar­madil­lo bile with two min­utes to go to the bell, which gave him an ex­cuse to duck down be­hind his caul­dron and mop up while the rest of the class moved nois­ily to­ward the door.

“What's so ur­gent?” he heard Snape hiss at Karkaroff.

“This,” said Karkaroff, and Har­ry, peer­ing around the edge of his caul­dron, saw Karkaroff pull up the left-​hand sleeve of his robe and show Snape some­thing on his in­ner fore­arm.

“Well?” said Karkaroff, still mak­ing ev­ery ef­fort not to move his lips. “Do you see? It's nev­er been this clear, nev­er since -”

“Put it away!” snarled Snape, his black eyes sweep­ing the class­room.

“But you must have no­ticed -” Karkaroff be­gan in an ag­itat­ed voice.

“We can talk lat­er, Karkaroff!” spat Snape. “Pot­ter! What are you do­ing?”

“Clear­ing up my ar­madil­lo bile, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry in­no­cent­ly, straight­en­ing up and show­ing Snape the sod­den rag he was hold­ing.

Karkaroff turned on his heel and strode out of the dun­geon. He looked both wor­ried and an­gry. Not want­ing to re­main alone with an ex­cep­tion­al­ly an­gry Snape, Har­ry threw his books and in­gre­di­ents back in­to his bag and left at top speed to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just wit­nessed.



They left the cas­tle at noon the next day to find a weak sil­ver sun shin­ing down up­on the grounds. The weath­er was milder than it had been all year, and by the time they ar­rived in Hogsmeade, all three of them had tak­en off their cloaks and thrown them over their shoul­ders. The food Sir­ius had told them to bring was in Har­ry's bag; they had sneaked a dozen chick­en legs, a loaf of bread, and a flask of pump­kin juice from the lunch ta­ble.

They went in­to Gladrags Wiz­ard­wear to buy a present for Dob­by, where they had fun se­lect­ing the most lurid socks they could find, in­clud­ing a pair pat­terned with flash­ing gold and sil­ver stars, and an­oth­er that screamed loud­ly when they be­came too smelly. Then, at half past one, they made their way up the High Street, past Dervish and Banges, and out to­ward the edge of the vil­lage.

Har­ry had nev­er been in this di­rec­tion be­fore. The wind­ing lane was lead­ing them out in­to the wild coun­try­side around Hogsmeade. The cot­tages were few­er here, and their gar­dens larg­er; they were walk­ing to­ward the foot of the moun­tain in whose shad­ow Hogsmeade lay. Then they turned a cor­ner and saw a stile at the end of the lane. Wait­ing for them, its front paws on the top­most bar, was a very large, shag­gy black dog, which was car­ry­ing some news­pa­pers in its mouth and look­ing very fa­mil­iar.…

“Hel­lo, Sir­ius,” said Har­ry when they had reached him.

The black dog sniffed Har­ry's bag ea­ger­ly, wagged its tail once, then turned and be­gan to trot away from them across the scrub­by patch of ground that rose to meet the rocky foot of the moun­tain. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione climbed over the stile and fol­lowed.

Sir­ius led them to the very foot of the moun­tain, where the ground was cov­ered with boul­ders and rocks. It was easy for him, with his four paws, but Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were soon out of breath. They fol­lowed Sir­ius high­er, up on­to the moun­tain it­self. For near­ly half an hour they climbed a steep, wind­ing, and stony path, fol­low­ing Sir­ius's wag­ging tail, sweat­ing in the sun, the shoul­der straps of Har­ry's bag cut­ting in­to his shoul­ders.

Then, at last, Sir­ius slipped out of sight, and when they reached the place where he had van­ished, they saw a nar­row fis­sure in the rock. They squeezed in­to it and found them­selves in a cool, dim­ly lit cave. Teth­ered at the end of it, one end of his rope around a large rock, was Buck­beak the hip­pogriff. Half gray horse, half gi­ant ea­gle, Buck­beak's fierce or­ange eye flashed at the sight of them. All three of them bowed low to him, and af­ter re­gard­ing them im­pe­ri­ous­ly for a mo­ment, Buck­beak bent his scaly front knees and al­lowed Hermione to rush for­ward and stroke his feath­ery neck. Har­ry, how­ev­er, was look­ing at the black dog, which had just turned in­to his god­fa­ther.

Sir­ius was wear­ing ragged gray robes; the same ones he had been wear­ing when he had left Azk­aban. His black hair was longer than it had been when he had ap­peared in the fire, and it was un­tidy and mat­ted once more. He looked very thin.

“Chick­en!” he said hoarse­ly af­ter re­mov­ing the old Dai­ly Prophets from his mouth and throw­ing them down on­to the cave floor.

Har­ry pulled open his bag and hand­ed over the bun­dle of chick­en legs and bread.

“Thanks,” said Sir­ius, open­ing it, grab­bing a drum­stick, sit­ting down on the cave floor, and tear­ing off a large chunk with his teeth. “I've been liv­ing off rats most­ly. Can't steal too much food from Hogsmeade; I'd draw at­ten­tion to my­self.”

He grinned up at Har­ry, but Har­ry re­turned the grin on­ly re­luc­tant­ly.

“What're you do­ing here, Sir­ius?” he said.

“Ful­fill­ing my du­ty as god­fa­ther,” said Sir­ius, gnaw­ing on the chick­en bone in a very dog­like way. “Don't wor­ry about it, I'm pre­tend­ing to be a lov­able stray.”

He was still grin­ning, but see­ing the anx­iety in Har­ry's face, said more se­ri­ous­ly, “I want to be on the spot. Your last let­ter…well, let's just say things are get­ting fishi­er. I've been steal­ing the pa­per ev­ery time some­one throws one out, and by the looks of things, I'm not the on­ly one who's get­ting wor­ried.”

He nod­ded at the yel­low­ing Dai­ly Prophets on the cave floor, and Ron picked them up and un­fold­ed them. Har­ry, how­ev­er, con­tin­ued to stare at Sir­ius.

“What if they catch you? What if you're seen?”

“You three and Dum­ble­dore are the on­ly ones around here who know I'm an An­ima­gus,” said Sir­ius, shrug­ging, and con­tin­uing to de­vour the chick­en leg.

Ron nudged Har­ry and passed him the Dai­ly Prophets. There were two: The first bore the head­line Mys­tery Ill­ness of Bartemius Crouch, the sec­ond, Min­istry Witch Still Miss­ing - Min­is­ter of Mag­ic Now Per­son­al­ly In­volved.

Har­ry scanned the sto­ry about Crouch. Phras­es jumped out at him: hasn't been seen in pub­lic since Novem­ber…house ap­pears de­sert­ed…St. Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­juries de­cline com­ment…Min­istry re­fus­es to con­firm ru­mors of crit­ical ill­ness.…

“They're mak­ing it sound like he's dy­ing,” said Har­ry slow­ly. “But he can't be that ill if he man­aged to get up here.…”

“My broth­ers Crouch's per­son­al as­sis­tant,” Ron in­formed Sir­ius. “He says Crouch is suf­fer­ing from over­work.”

“Mind you, he did look ill, last time I saw him up close,” said Har­ry slow­ly, still read­ing the sto­ry. “The night my name came out of the gob­let.…”

“Get­ting his come­up­pance for sack­ing Winky, isn't he?” said Hermione, an edge to her voice. She was stroking Buck­beak, who was crunch­ing up Sir­ius's chick­en bones. “I bet he wish­es he hadn't done it now - bet he feels the dif­fer­ence now she's not there to look af­ter him.”

“Hermione's ob­sessed with house-​elfs,” Ron mut­tered to Sir­ius, cast­ing Hermione a dark look. Sir­ius, how­ev­er, looked in­ter­est­ed.

“Crouch sacked his house-​elf?”

“Yeah, at the Quid­ditch World Cup,” said Har­ry, and he launched in­to the sto­ry of the Dark Mark's ap­pear­ance, and Winky be­ing found with Har­ry's wand clutched in her hand, and Mr. Crouch's fury. When Har­ry had fin­ished, Sir­ius was on his feet again and had start­ed pac­ing up and down the cave.

“Let me get this straight,” he said af­ter a while, bran­dish­ing a fresh chick­en leg. “You first saw the elfin the Top Box. She was sav­ing Crouch a seat, right?”

“Right,” said Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to­geth­er.

“But Crouch didn't turn up for the match?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “I think he said he'd been too busy.”

Sir­ius paced all around the cave in si­lence. Then he said, “Har­ry, did you check your pock­ets for your wand af­ter you'd left the Top Box?”

“Erm…” Har­ry thought hard. “No,” he said fi­nal­ly. “I didn't need to use it be­fore we got in the for­est. And then I put my hand in my pock­et, and all that was in there were my Om­nioc­ulars.” He stared at Sir­ius. “Are you say­ing who­ev­er con­jured the Mark stole my wand in the Top Box?”

“It's pos­si­ble,” said Sir­ius.

“Winky didn't steal that wand!” Hermione in­sist­ed.

“The elf wasn't the on­ly one in that box,” said Sir­ius, his brow fur­rowed as he con­tin­ued to pace. “Who else was sit­ting be­hind you?”

“Loads of peo­ple,” said Har­ry. “Some Bul­gar­ian min­is­ters…Cor­nelius Fudge…the Mal­foys…”

“The Mal­foys!” said Ron sud­den­ly, so loud­ly that his voice echoed all around the cave, and Buck­beak tossed his head ner­vous­ly. “I bet it was Lu­cius Mal­foy!”

“Any­one else?” said Sir­ius.

“No one,” said Har­ry.

“Yes, there was, there was Lu­do Bag­man,” Hermione re­mind­ed him.

“Oh yeah…”

“I don't know any­thing about Bag­man ex­cept that he used to be Beat­er for the Wim­bourne Wasps,” said Sir­ius, still pac­ing. “What's he like?”

“He's okay,” said Har­ry. “He keeps of­fer­ing to help me with the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment.”

“Does he, now?” said Sir­ius, frown­ing more deeply. “I won­der why he'd do that?”

“Says he's tak­en a lik­ing to me,” said Har­ry.

“Hmm,” said Sir­ius, look­ing thought­ful.

“We saw him in the for­est just be­fore the Dark Mark ap­peared,” Hermione told Sir­ius. “Re­mem­ber?” she said to Har­ry and Ron.

“Yeah, but he didn't stay in the for­est, did he?” said Ron. “The mo­ment we told him about the ri­ot, he went off to the camp­site.”

“How d'you know?” Hermione shot back. “How d'you know where he Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed to?”

“Come off it,” said Ron in­cred­ulous­ly. “Are you say­ing you reck­on Lu­do Bag­man con­jured the Dark Mark?”

“It's more like­ly he did it than Winky,” said Hermione stub­born­ly.

“Told you,” said Ron, look­ing mean­ing­ful­ly at Sir­ius, “told you she's ob­sessed with house -”

But Sir­ius held up a hand to si­lence Ron.

“When the Dark Mark had been con­jured, and the elf had been dis­cov­ered hold­ing Har­ry's wand, what did Crouch do?”

“Went to look in the bush­es,” said Har­ry, “but there wasn't any­one else there.”

“Of course,” Sir­ius mut­tered, pac­ing up and down, “of course, he'd want to pin it on any­one but his own elf…and then he sacked her?”

“Yes,” said Hermione in a heat­ed voice, “he sacked her, just be­cause she hadn't stayed in her tent and let her­self get tram­pled -”

“Hermione, will you give it a rest with the elf!” said Ron.

Sir­ius shook his head and said, “She's got the mea­sure of Crouch bet­ter than you have, Ron. If you want to know what a mans like, take a good look at how he treats his in­fe­ri­ors, not his equals.”

He ran a hand over his un­shaven face, ev­ident­ly think­ing hard.

“All these ab­sences of Bar­ty Crouch's…he goes to the trou­ble of mak­ing sure his house-​elf saves him a seat at the Quid­ditch World Cup, but doesn't both­er to turn up and watch. He works very hard to re­in­state the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment, and then stops com­ing to that too.…It's not like Crouch. If he's ev­er tak­en a day off work be­cause of ill­ness be­fore this, I'll eat Buck­beak.”

“D'you know Crouch, then?” said Har­ry.

Sir­ius's face dark­ened. He sud­den­ly looked as men­ac­ing as he had the night when Har­ry first met him, the night when Har­ry still be­lieved Sir­ius to be a mur­der­er.

“Oh I know Crouch all right,” he said qui­et­ly. “He was the one who gave the or­der for me to be sent to Azk­aban - with­out a tri­al.”

“What?” said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er.

“You're kid­ding!” said Har­ry.

“No, I'm not,” said Sir­ius, tak­ing an­oth­er great bite of chick­en. “Crouch used to be Head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, didn't you know?”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione shook their heads.

“He was tipped for the next Min­is­ter of Mag­ic,” said Sir­ius. “He's a great wiz­ard, Bar­ty Crouch, pow­er­ful­ly mag­ical - and pow­er-​hun­gry. Oh nev­er a Volde­mort sup­port­er,” he said, read­ing the look on Har­ry's face. “No, Bar­ty Crouch was al­ways very out­spo­ken against the Dark Side. But then a lot of peo­ple who were against the Dark Side…well, you wouldn't un­der­stand…you're too young.…”

“That's what my dad said at the World Cup,” said Ron, with a trace of ir­ri­ta­tion in his voice. “Try us, why don't you?”

A grin flashed across Sir­ius's thin face.

“All right, I'll try you.…” He walked once up the cave, back again, and then said, "Imag­ine that Volde­mort's pow­er­ful now. You don't know who his sup­port­ers are, you don't know who's work­ing for him and who isn't; you know he can con­trol peo­ple so that they do ter­ri­ble things with­out be­ing able to stop them­selves. You're scared for your­self, and your fam­ily, and your friends. Ev­ery week, news comes of more deaths, more dis­ap­pear­ances, more tor­tur­ing…the Min­istry of Mag­ic's in dis­ar­ray, they don't know what to do, they're try­ing to keep ev­ery­thing hid­den from the Mug­gles, but mean­while, Mug­gles are dy­ing too. Ter­ror ev­ery­where…pan­ic…con­fu­sion…that's how it used to be.

“Well, times like that bring out the best in some peo­ple and the worst in oth­ers. Crouch's prin­ci­ples might've been good in the be­gin­ning - I wouldn't know. He rose quick­ly through the Min­istry, and he start­ed or­der­ing very harsh mea­sures against Volde­mort's sup­port­ers. The Au­rors were giv­en new pow­ers - pow­ers to kill rather than cap­ture, for in­stance. And I wasn't the on­ly one who was hand­ed straight to the de­men­tors with­out tri­al. Crouch fought vi­olence with vi­olence, and au­tho­rized the use of the Un­for­giv­able Curs­es against sus­pects. I would say he be­came as ruth­less and cru­el as many on the Dark Side. He had his sup­port­ers, mind you - plen­ty of peo­ple thought he was go­ing about things the right way, and there were a lot of witch­es and wiz­ards clam­or­ing for him to take over as Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. When Volde­mort dis­ap­peared, it looked like on­ly a mat­ter of time un­til Crouch got the top job. But then some­thing rather un­for­tu­nate hap­pened.…” Sir­ius smiled grim­ly. “Crouch's own son was caught with a group of Death Eaters who'd man­aged to talk their way out of Azk­aban. Ap­par­ent­ly they were try­ing to find Volde­mort and re­turn him to pow­er.”

“Crouch's son was caught?” gasped Hermione.

“Yep,” said Sir­ius, throw­ing his chick­en bone to Buck­beak, fling­ing him­self back down on the ground be­side the loaf of bread, and tear­ing it in half. “Nasty lit­tle shock for old Bar­ty, I'd I mag­ine. Should have spent a bit more time at home with his fam­ily, shouldn't he? Ought to have left the of­fice ear­ly once in a while…got­ten to know his own son.”

He be­gan to wolf down large pieces of bread.

“Was his son a Death Eater?” said Har­ry.

“No idea,” said Sir­ius, still stuff­ing down bread. “I was in Azk­aban my­self when he was brought in. This is most­ly stuff I've found out since I got out. The boy was def­inite­ly caught in the com­pa­ny of peo­ple I'd bet my life were Death Eaters - but he might have been in the wrong place at the wrong time, just like the house-​elf.”

“Did Crouch try and get his son off?” Hermione whis­pered.

Sir­ius let out a laugh that was much more like a bark.

“Crouch let his son off? I thought you had the mea­sure of him, Hermione! Any­thing that threat­ened to tar­nish his rep­uta­tion had to go; he had ded­icat­ed his whole life to be­com­ing Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. You saw him dis­miss a de­vot­ed house-​elf be­cause she as­so­ci­at­ed him with the Dark Mark again - doesn't that tell you what he's like? Crouch's fa­ther­ly af­fec­tion stretched just far enough to give his son a tri­al, and by all ac­counts, it wasn't much more than an ex­cuse for Crouch to show how much he hat­ed the boy…then he sent him straight to Azk­aban.”

“He gave his own son to the de­men­tors?” asked Har­ry qui­et­ly.

“That's right,” said Sir­ius, and he didn't look re­mote­ly amused now. “I saw the de­men­tors bring­ing him in, watched them through the bars in my cell door. He can't have been more than nine­teen. They took him in­to a cell near mine. He was scream­ing for his moth­er by night­fall. He went qui­et af­ter a few days, though…they all went qui­et in the end…ex­cept when they shrieked in their sleep.…”

For a mo­ment, the dead­ened look in Sir­ius's eyes be­came more pro­nounced than ev­er, as though shut­ters had closed be­hind them.

“So he's still in Azk­aban?” Har­ry said.

“No,” said Sir­ius dul­ly. “No, he's not in there any­more. He died about a year af­ter they brought him in.”

“He died?”

“He wasn't the on­ly one,” said Sir­ius bit­ter­ly. “Most go mad in there, and plen­ty stop eat­ing in the end. They lose the will to live. You could al­ways tell when a death was com­ing, be­cause the de­men­tors could sense it, they got ex­cit­ed. That boy looked pret­ty sick­ly when he ar­rived. Crouch be­ing an im­por­tant Min­istry mem­ber, he and his wife were al­lowed a deathbed vis­it. That was the last time I saw Bar­ty Crouch, half car­ry­ing his wife past my cell. She died her­self, ap­par­ent­ly, short­ly af­ter­ward. Grief. Wast­ed away just like the boy. Crouch nev­er came for his son's body. The de­men­tors buried him out­side the fortress; I watched them do it.”

Sir­ius threw aside the bread he had just lift­ed to his mouth and in­stead picked up the flask of pump­kin juice and drained it.

“So old Crouch lost it all, just when he thought he had it made,” he con­tin­ued, wip­ing his mouth with the back of his hand. “One mo­ment, a hero, poised to be­come Min­is­ter of Mag­ic…next, his son dead, his wife dead, the fam­ily name dis­hon­ored, and, so I've heard since I es­caped, a big drop in pop­ular­ity. Once the boy had died, peo­ple start­ed feel­ing a bit more sym­pa­thet­ic to­ward the son and start­ed ask­ing how a nice young lad from a good fam­ily had gone so bad­ly astray. The con­clu­sion was that his fa­ther nev­er cared much for him. So Cor­nelius Fudge got the top job, and Crouch was shunt­ed side­ways in­to the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co­op­er­ation.”

There was a long si­lence. Har­ry was think­ing of the way Crouch's eyes had bulged as he'd looked down at his dis­obe­di­ent house-​elf back in the wood at the Quid­ditch World Cup. This, then, must have been why Crouch had over­re­act­ed to Winky be­ing found be­neath the Dark Mark. It had brought back mem­ories of his son, and the old scan­dal, and his fall from grace at the Min­istry.

“Moody says Crouch is ob­sessed with catch­ing Dark wiz­ards,” Har­ry told Sir­ius.

“Yeah, I've heard it's be­come a bit of a ma­nia with him,” said Sir­ius, nod­ding. “If you ask me, he still thinks he can bring back the old pop­ular­ity by catch­ing one more Death Eater.”

“And he sneaked up here to search Snape's of­fice!” said Ron tri­umphant­ly, look­ing at Hermione.

“Yes, and that doesn't make sense at all,” said Sir­ius.

“Yeah, it does!” said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, but Sir­ius shook his head.

“Lis­ten, if Crouch wants to in­ves­ti­gate Snape, why hasn't he been com­ing to judge the tour­na­ment? It would be an ide­al ex­cuse to make reg­ular vis­its to Hog­warts and keep an eye on him.”

“So you think Snape could be up to some­thing, then?” asked Har­ry, but Hermione broke in.

“Look, I don't care what you say, Dum­ble­dore trusts Snape -”

“Oh give it a rest, Hermione,” said Ron im­pa­tient­ly. “I know Dum­ble­dores bril­liant and ev­ery­thing, but that doesn't mean a re­al­ly clever Dark wiz­ard couldn't fool him -”

“Why did Snape save Har­ry's life in the first year, then? Why didn't he just let him die?”

“I dun­no - maybe he thought Dum­ble­dore would kick him out-”

“What d'you think, Sir­ius?” Har­ry said loud­ly, and Ron and Hermione stopped bick­er­ing to lis­ten.

“I think they've both got a point,” said Sir­ius, look­ing thought­ful­ly at Ron and Hermione. “Ev­er since I found out Snape was teach­ing here, I've won­dered why Dum­ble­dore hired him. Snape's al­ways been fas­ci­nat­ed by the Dark Arts, he was fa­mous for it at school. Slimy, oily, greasy-​haired kid, he was,” Sir­ius added, and Har­ry and Ron grinned at each oth­er. “Snape knew more curs­es when he ar­rived at school than half the kids in sev­enth year, and he was part of a gang of Slytherins who near­ly all turned out to be Death Eaters.”

Sir­ius held up his fin­gers and be­gan tick­ing off names.

“Rosier and Wilkes - they were both killed by Au­rors the year be­fore Volde­mort fell. The Lestranges - they're a mar­ried cou­ple - they're in Azk­aban. Av­ery - from what I've heard he wormed his way out of trou­ble by say­ing he'd been act­ing un­der the Im­perius Curse - he's still at large. But as far as I know, Snape was nev­er even ac­cused of be­ing a Death Eater - not that that means much. Plen­ty of them were nev­er caught. And Snape's cer­tain­ly clever and cun­ning enough to keep him­self out of trou­ble.”

“Snape knows Karkaroff pret­ty well, but he wants to keep that qui­et,” said Ron.

“Yeah, you should've seen Snape's face when Karkaroff turned up in Po­tions yes­ter­day!” said Har­ry quick­ly. “Karkaroff want­ed to talk to Snape, he says Snape's been avoid­ing him. Karkaroff looked re­al­ly wor­ried. He showed Snape some­thing on his arm, but I couldn't see what it was.”

He showed Snape some­thing on his arm?“ said Sir­ius, look­ing frankly be­wil­dered. He ran his fin­gers dis­tract­ed­ly through his filthy hair, then shrugged again. ”Well, I've no idea what that's about…but if Karkaroff's gen­uine­ly wor­ried, and he's go­ing to Snape for an­swers…"

Sir­ius stared at the cave wall, then made a gri­mace of frus­tra­tion.

“There's still the fact that Dum­ble­dore trusts Snape, and I know Dum­ble­dore trusts where a lot of oth­er peo­ple wouldn't, but I just can't see him let­ting Snape teach at Hog­warts if he'd ev­er worked for Volde­mort.”

“Why are Moody and Crouch so keen to get in­to Snape's of­fice then?” said Ron stub­born­ly.

“Well,” said Sir­ius slow­ly, “I wouldn't put it past Mad-​Eye to have searched ev­ery sin­gle teach­er's of­fice when he got to Hog­warts. He takes his De­fense Against the Dark Arts se­ri­ous­ly, Moody. I'm not sure he trusts any­one at all, and af­ter the things he's seen, it's not sur­pris­ing. I'll say this for Moody, though, he nev­er killed if he could help it. Al­ways brought peo­ple in alive where pos­si­ble. He was tough, but he nev­er de­scend­ed to the lev­el of the Death Eaters. Crouch, though…he's a dif­fer­ent mat­ter…is he re­al­ly ill? If he is, why did he make the ef­fort to drag him­self up to Snape's of­fice? And if he's not…what's he up to? What was he do­ing at the World Cup that was so im­por­tant he didn't turn up in the Top Box? What's he been do­ing while he should have been judg­ing the tour­na­ment?”

Sir­ius lapsed in­to si­lence, still star­ing at the cave wall. Buck­beak was fer­ret­ing around on the rocky floor, look­ing for bones he might have over­looked. Fi­nal­ly, Sir­ius looked up at Ron.

“You say your broth­er's Crouch's per­son­al as­sis­tant? Any chance you could ask him if he's seen Crouch late­ly?”

“I can try,” said Ron doubt­ful­ly. “Bet­ter not make it sound like I reck­on Crouch is up to any­thing dodgy, though. Per­cy loves Crouch.”

“And you might try and find out whether they've got any leads on Bertha Jorkins while you're at it,” said Sir­ius, ges­tur­ing to the sec­ond copy of the Dai­ly Prophet.

“Bag­man told me they hadn't,” said Har­ry.

“Yes, he's quot­ed in the ar­ti­cle in there,” said Sir­ius, nod­ding at the pa­per. “Blus­ter­ing on about how bad Bertha's mem­ory is. Well, maybe she's changed since I knew her, but the Bertha I knew wasn't for­get­ful at all - quite the re­verse. She was a bit dim, but she had an ex­cel­lent mem­ory for gos­sip. It used to get her in­to a lot of trou­ble; she nev­er knew when to keep her mouth shut. I can see her be­ing a bit of a li­abil­ity at the Min­istry of Mag­ic…maybe that's why Bag­man didn't both­er to look for her for so long.…”

Sir­ius heaved an enor­mous sigh and rubbed his shad­owed eyes.

“What's the time?”

Har­ry checked his watch, then re­mem­bered it hadn't been work­ing since it had spent over an hour in the lake.

“It's half past three,” said Hermione.

“You'd bet­ter get back to school,” Sir­ius said, get­ting to his feet. “Now lis­ten…” He looked par­tic­ular­ly hard at Har­ry. “I don't want you lot sneak­ing out of school to see me, all right? Just send notes to me here. I still want to hear about any­thing odd. But you're not to go leav­ing Hog­warts with­out per­mis­sion; it would be an ide­al op­por­tu­ni­ty for some­one to at­tack you.”

“No one's tried to at­tack me so far, ex­cept a drag­on and a cou­ple of grindy­lows,” Har­ry said, but Sir­ius scowled at him.

“I don't care…I'll breathe freely again when this tour­na­ment's over, and that's not un­til June. And don't for­get, if you're talk­ing about me among your­selves, call me Snuf­fles, okay?”

He hand­ed Har­ry the emp­ty nap­kin and flask and went to pat Buck­beak good-​bye. “I'll walk to the edge of the vil­lage with you,” said Sir­ius, “see if I can scrounge an­oth­er pa­per.”

He trans­formed in­to the great black dog be­fore they left the cave, and they walked back down the moun­tain­side with him, across the boul­der-​strewn ground, and back to the stile. Here he al­lowed each of them to pat him on the head, be­fore turn­ing and set­ting off at a run around the out­skirts of the vil­lage. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione made their way back in­to Hogsmeade and up to­ward Hog­warts.

“Won­der if Per­cy knows all that stuff about Crouch?” Ron said as they walked up the drive to the cas­tle. “But maybe he doesn't care…It'd prob­ably just make him ad­mire Crouch even more. Yeah, Per­cy loves rules. He'd just say Crouch was re­fus­ing to break them for his own son.”

“Per­cy would nev­er throw any of his fam­ily to the de­men­tors,” said Hermione severe­ly.

“I don't know,” said Ron. “If he thought we were stand­ing in the way of his ca­reer…Per­cy's re­al­ly am­bi­tious, you know.…”

They walked up the stone steps in­to the en­trance hall, where the de­li­cious smells of din­ner waft­ed to­ward them from the Great Hall.

“Poor old Snuf­fles,” said Ron, breath­ing deeply. “He must re­al­ly like you. Har­ry.…Imag­ine hav­ing to live off rats.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT


THE MAD­NESS OF MR CROUCH



H ar­ry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery af­ter break­fast on Sun­day to send a let­ter to Per­cy, ask­ing, as Sir­ius had sug­gest­ed, whether he had seen Mr. Crouch late­ly. They used Hed­wig, be­cause it had been so long since she'd had a job. When they had watched her fly out of sight through the Owlery win­dow, they pro­ceed­ed down to the kitchen to give Dob­by his new socks.

The house-​elves gave them a very cheery wel­come, bow­ing and curt­sy­ing and bustling around mak­ing tea again. Dob­by was ec­stat­ic about his present.

“Har­ry Pot­ter is too good to Dob­by!” he squeaked, wip­ing large tears out of his enor­mous eyes.

“You saved my life with that gilly­weed, Dob­by, you re­al­ly did,” said Har­ry.

“No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?” said Ron, who was look­ing around at the beam­ing and bow­ing house-​elves.

“You've just had break­fast!” said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, but a great sil­ver plat­ter of eclairs was al­ready zoom­ing to­ward them, sup­port­ed by four elves.

“We should get some stuff to send up to Snuf­fles,” Har­ry mut­tered.

“Good idea,” said Ron. “Give Pig some­thing to do. You couldn't give us a bit of ex­tra food, could you?” he said to the sur­round­ing elves, and they bowed de­light­ed­ly and hur­ried off to get some more.

“Dob­by, where's Winky?” said Hermione, who was look­ing around.

“Winky is over there by the fire, miss,” said Dob­by qui­et­ly, his ears droop­ing slight­ly.

“Oh dear,” said Hermione as she spot­ted Winky.

Har­ry looked over at the fire­place too. Winky was sit­ting on the same stool as last time, but she had al­lowed her­self to be­come so filthy that she was not im­me­di­ate­ly dis­tin­guish­able from the smoke-​black­ened brick be­hind her. Her clothes were ragged and un­washed. She was clutch­ing a bot­tle of but­ter­beer and sway­ing slight­ly on her stool, star­ing in­to the fire. As they watched her, she gave an enor­mous hic­cup.

“Winky is get­ting through six bot­tles a day now,” Dob­by whis­pered to Har­ry.

“Well, it's not strong, that stuff,” Har­ry said.

But Dob­by shook his head. “'Tis strong for a house-​elf, sir,” he said.

Winky hic­cuped again. The elves who had brought the eclairs gave her dis­ap­prov­ing looks as they re­turned to work.

“Winky is pin­ing, Har­ry Pot­ter,” Dob­by whis­pered sad­ly. “Winky wants to go home. Winky still thinks Mr. Crouch is her mas­ter, sir, and noth­ing Dob­by says will per­suade her that Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore is her mas­ter now.”

“Hey, Winky,” said Har­ry, struck by a sud­den in­spi­ra­tion, walk­ing over to her, and bend­ing down, “you don't know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do you? Be­cause he's stopped turn­ing up to judge the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment.”

Winky's eyes flick­ered. Her enor­mous pupils fo­cused on Har­ry. She swayed slight­ly again and then said, “M - Mas­ter is stopped - hic - com­ing?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “we haven't seen him since the first task. The Dai­ly Prophet's say­ing he's ill.”

Winky swayed some more, star­ing blur­ri­ly at Har­ry.

“Mas­ter - hic - ill?”

Her bot­tom lip be­gan to trem­ble.

“But we're not sure if that's true,” said Hermione quick­ly.

“Mas­ter is need­ing his - hic - Winky!” whim­pered the elf. “Mas­ter can­not - hic - man­age - hic - all by him­self.…”

“Oth­er peo­ple man­age to do their own house­work, you know, Winky,” Hermione said severe­ly.

“Winky - hic - is not on­ly - hic - do­ing house­work for Mr. Crouch!” Winky squeaked in­dig­nant­ly, sway­ing worse than ev­er and slop­ping but­ter­beer down her al­ready heav­ily stained blouse. “Mas­ter is - hic - trust­ing Winky with - hic - the most im­por­tant - hic - the most se­cret…”

“What?” said Har­ry.

But Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more but­ter­beer down her­self.

“Winky keeps - hic - her mas­ter's se­crets,” she said muti­nous­ly, sway­ing very heav­ily now, frown­ing up at Har­ry with her eyes crossed. “You is - hic - nos­ing, you is.”

“Winky must not talk like that to Har­ry Pot­ter!” said Dob­by an­gri­ly. “Har­ry Pot­ter is brave and no­ble and Har­ry Pot­ter is not nosy!”

“He is nos­ing - hic - in­to my mas­ter's - hic - pri­vate and se­cret - hic - Winky is a good house-​elf - hic - Winky keeps her si­lence - hic - peo­ple try­ing to - hic - pry and poke - hic -”

Winky's eye­lids drooped and sud­den­ly, with­out warn­ing, she slid off her stool in­to the hearth, snor­ing loud­ly. The emp­ty bot­tle of but­ter­beer rolled away across the stone-​flagged floor. Half a dozen house-​elves came hur­ry­ing for­ward, look­ing dis­gust­ed. One of them picked up the bot­tle; the oth­ers cov­ered Winky with a large checked table­cloth and tucked the ends in neat­ly, hid­ing her from view.

“We is sor­ry you had to see that, sirs and miss!” squeaked a near­by elf, shak­ing his head and look­ing very ashamed. “We is hop­ing you will not judge us all by Winky, sirs and miss!”

“She's un­hap­py!” said Hermione, ex­as­per­at­ed. “Why don't you try and cheer her up in­stead of cov­er­ing her up?”

“Beg­ging your par­don, miss,” said the house-​elf, bow­ing deeply again, “but house-​elves has no right to be un­hap­py when there is work to be done and mas­ters to be served.”

“Oh for heav­ens sake!” Hermione cried. “Lis­ten to me, all of you! You've got just as much right as wiz­ards to be un­hap­py! You've got the right to wages and hol­idays and prop­er clothes, you don't have to do ev­ery­thing you're told - look at Dob­by!”

“Miss will please keep Dob­by out of this,” Dob­by mum­bled, look­ing scared. The cheery smiles had van­ished from the faces of the house-​elves around the kitchen. They were sud­den­ly look­ing at Hermione as though she were mad and dan­ger­ous.

“We has your ex­tra food!” squeaked an elf at Har­ry's el­bow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and some fruit in­to Har­ry's arms. “Good-​bye!”

The house-​elves crowd­ed around Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione and be­gan shunt­ing them out of the kitchen, many lit­tle hands push­ing in the smalls of their backs.

“Thank you for the socks, Har­ry Pot­ter!” Dob­by called mis­er­ably from the hearth, where he was stand­ing next to the lumpy table­cloth that was Winky.

“You couldn't keep your mouth shut, could you, Hermione?” said Ron an­gri­ly as the kitchen door slammed shut be­hind them. “They won't want us vis­it­ing them now! We could've tried to get more stuff out of Winky about Crouch!”

“Oh as if you care about that!” scoffed Hermione. “You on­ly like com­ing down here for the food!”

It was an ir­ri­ta­ble sort of day af­ter that. Har­ry got so tired of Ron and Hermione snip­ing at each oth­er over their home­work in the com­mon room that he took Sir­ius's food up to the Owlery that evening on his own.

Pig­wid­geon was much too small to car­ry an en­tire ham up to the moun­tain by him­self, so Har­ry en­list­ed the help of two school screech owls as well. When they had set off in­to the dusk, look­ing ex­treme­ly odd car­ry­ing the large pack­age be­tween them. Har­ry leaned on the win­dowsill, look­ing out at the grounds, at the dark, rustling tree­tops of the For­bid­den For­est, and the rip­pling sails of the Durm­strang ship. An ea­gle owl flew through the coil of smoke ris­ing from Ha­grid's chim­ney; it soared to­ward the cas­tle, around the Owlery, and out of sight. Look­ing down, Har­ry saw Ha­grid dig­ging en­er­get­ical­ly in front of his cab­in. Har­ry won­dered what he was do­ing; it looked as though he were mak­ing a new veg­etable patch. As he watched, Madame Maxime emerged from the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage and walked over to Ha­grid. She ap­peared to be try­ing to en­gage him in con­ver­sa­tion. Ha­grid leaned up­on his spade, but did not seem keen to pro­long their talk, be­cause Madame Maxime re­turned to the car­riage short­ly af­ter­ward.

Un­will­ing to go back to Gryffind­or Tow­er and lis­ten to Ron and Hermione snarling at each oth­er, Har­ry watched Ha­grid dig­ging un­til the dark­ness swal­lowed him and the owls around Har­ry be­gan to awake, swoosh­ing past him in­to the night.



By break­fast the next day Ron's and Hermione's bad moods had burnt out, and to Har­ry's re­lief, Ron's dark pre­dic­tions that the house-​elves would send sub­stan­dard food up to the Gryffind­or ta­ble be­cause Hermione had in­sult­ed them proved false; the ba­con, eggs, and kip­pers were quite as good as usu­al.

When the post owls ar­rived, Hermione looked up ea­ger­ly; she seemed to be ex­pect­ing some­thing.

“Per­cy won't've had time to an­swer yet,” said Ron. “We on­ly sent Hed­wig yes­ter­day.”

“No, it's not that,” said Hermione. “I've tak­en out a sub­scrip­tion to the Dai­ly Prophet. I'm get­ting sick of find­ing ev­ery­thing out from the Slytherins.”

“Good think­ing!” said Har­ry, al­so look­ing up at the owls. “Hey, Hermione, I think you're in luck -”

A gray owl was soar­ing down to­ward Hermione.

“It hasn't got a news­pa­per, though,” she said, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed. “It's -”

But to her be­wil­der­ment, the gray owl land­ed in front of her plate, close­ly fol­lowed by four barn owls, a brown owl, and a tawny.

“How many sub­scrip­tions did you take out?” said Har­ry, seiz­ing Hermione's gob­let be­fore it was knocked over by the clus­ter of owls, all of whom were jostling close to her, try­ing to de­liv­er their own let­ter first.

“What on earth - ?” Hermione said, tak­ing the let­ter from the gray owl, open­ing it, and start­ing to read. “Oh re­al­ly!” she sput­tered, go­ing rather red.

“What's up?” said Ron.

“It's - oh how ridicu­lous -”

She thrust the let­ter at Har­ry, who saw that it was not hand­writ­ten, but com­posed from past­ed let­ters that seemed to have been cut out of the Dai­ly Prophet.



YOU ARE A WICKED GIRL. HAR­RY POT­TER DE­SERVES

BET­TER. GO BACK WHERE YOU CAME FROM MUG­GLE.



“They're all like it!” said Hermione des­per­ate­ly, open­ing one let­ter af­ter an­oth­er. “'Har­ry Pot­ter can do much bet­ter than the likes of you.…' 'You de­serve to be boiled in frog spawn.…' Ouch!”

She had opened the last en­ve­lope, and yel­low­ish-​green liq­uid smelling strong­ly of petrol gushed over her hands, which be­gan to erupt in large yel­low boils.

“Undi­lut­ed bubo­tu­ber pus!” said Ron, pick­ing up the en­ve­lope gin­ger­ly and sniff­ing it.

“Ow!” said Hermione, tears start­ing in her eyes as she tried to rub the pus off her hands with a nap­kin, but her fin­gers were now so thick­ly cov­ered in painful sores that it looked as though she were wear­ing a pair of thick, knob­bly gloves.

“You'd bet­ter get up to the hos­pi­tal wing,” said Har­ry as the owls around Hermione took flight. “We'll tell Pro­fes­sor Sprout where you've gone.…”

“I warned her!” said Ron as Hermione hur­ried out of the Great Hall, cradling her hands. “I warned her not to an­noy Ri­ta Skeeter! Look at this one…” He read out one of the let­ters Hermione had left be­hind: “I read In Witch Week­ly about how you are play­ing Har­ry Pot­ter false and that boy has had enough hard­ship and I will be send­ing you a curse by next post as soon as I can find a big enough en­ve­lope.' Blimey, she'd bet­ter watch out for her­self.”

Hermione didn't turn up for Her­bol­ogy. As Har­ry and Ron left the green­house for their Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class, they saw Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle de­scend­ing the stone steps of the cas­tle. Pan­sy Parkin­son was whis­per­ing and gig­gling be­hind them with her gang of Slytherin girls. Catch­ing sight of Har­ry, Pan­sy called, “Pot­ter, have you split up with your girl­friend? Why was she so up­set at break­fast?”

Har­ry ig­nored her; he didn't want to give her the sat­is­fac­tion of know­ing how much trou­ble the Witch Week­ly ar­ti­cle had caused.

Ha­grid, who had told them last les­son that they had fin­ished with uni­corns, was wait­ing for them out­side his cab­in with a fresh sup­ply of open crates at his feet. Har­ry's heart sank at the sight of the crates - sure­ly not an­oth­er skrewt hatch­ing? - but when he got near enough to see in­side, he found him­self look­ing at a num­ber of flur­ry black crea­tures with long snouts. Their front paws were cu­ri­ous­ly flat, like spades, and they were blink­ing up at the class, look­ing po­lite­ly puz­zled at all the at­ten­tion.

“These're nif­flers,” said Ha­grid, when the class had gath­ered around. “Yeh find 'em down mines most­ly. They like spark­ly stuff.…There yeh go, look.”

One of the nif­flers had sud­den­ly leapt up and at­tempt­ed to bite Pan­sy Parkin­son's watch off her wrist. She shrieked and jumped back­ward.

“Use­ful lit­tle trea­sure de­tec­tors,” said Ha­grid hap­pi­ly. “Thought we'd have some fun with 'em to­day. See over there?” He point­ed at the large patch of fresh­ly turned earth Har­ry had watched him dig­ging from the Owlery win­dow. “I've buried some gold coins. I've got a prize fer who­ev­er picks the nif­fler that digs up most. Jus' take off all yer valu­ables, an' choose a nif­fler, an get ready ter set 'em loose.”

Har­ry took off his watch, which he was on­ly wear­ing out of habit, as it didn't work any­more, and stuffed it in­to his pock­et. Then he picked up a nif­fler. It put its long snout in Har­ry's ear and sniffed en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. It was re­al­ly quite cud­dly.

“Hang on,” said Ha­grid, look­ing down in­to the crate, “there's a spare nif­fler here…who's missin? Where's Hermione?”

“She had to go to the hos­pi­tal wing,” said Ron.

“We'll ex­plain lat­er,” Har­ry mut­tered; Pan­sy Parkin­son was lis­ten­ing.

It was eas­ily the most fun they had ev­er had in Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures. The nif­flers dived in and out of the patch of earth as though it were wa­ter, each scur­ry­ing back to the stu­dent who had re­leased it and spit­ting gold in­to their hands. Ron's was par­tic­ular­ly ef­fi­cient; it had soon filled his lap with coins.

“Can you buy these as pets, Ha­grid?” he asked ex­cit­ed­ly as his nif­fler dived back in­to the soil, splat­ter­ing his robes.

“Yer mum wouldn' be hap­py, Ron,” said Ha­grid, grin­ning. “They wreck hous­es, nif­flers. I reck­on they've near­ly got the lot, now,” he added, pac­ing around the patch of earth while the nif­flers con­tin­ued to dive. “I on'y buried a hun­dred coins. Oh there y'are, Hermione!”

Hermione was walk­ing to­ward them across the lawn. Her hands were very heav­ily ban­daged and she looked mis­er­able. Pan­sy Parkin­son was watch­ing her bead­ily.

“Well, let's check how yeh've done!” said Ha­grid. “Count yer coins! An' there's no point tryin' ter steal any, Goyle,” he added, his bee­tle-​black eyes nar­rowed. “It's lep­rechaun gold. Van­ish­es af­ter a few hours.”

Goyle emp­tied his pock­ets, look­ing ex­treme­ly sulky. It turned out that Ron's nif­fler had been most suc­cess­ful, so Ha­grid gave him an enor­mous slab of Hon­ey­duke's choco­late for a prize. The bell rang across the grounds for lunch; the rest of the class set off back to the cas­tle, but Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione stayed be­hind to help Ha­grid put the nif­flers back in their box­es. Har­ry no­ticed Madame Maxime watch­ing them out oth­er car­riage win­dow.

“What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?” said Ha­grid, look­ing con­cerned.

Hermione told him about the hate mail she had re­ceived that morn­ing, and the en­ve­lope full of bubo­tu­ber pus.

“Aaah, don' wor­ry,” said Ha­grid gen­tly, look­ing down at her. “I got some o' those let­ters an all, af­ter Ri­ta Skeeter wrote abou me mum. 'Yeh're a mon­ster an yeh should be put down.' 'Yer moth­er killed in­no­cent peo­ple an if you had any de­cen­cy you d jump in a lake.'”

“No!” said Hermione, look­ing shocked.

“Yeah,” said Ha­grid, heav­ing the nif­fler crates over by his cab­in wall. “They're jus' nut­ters, Hermione. Don' open 'em if yeh get any more. Chuck 'em straigh' in the fire.”

“You missed a re­al­ly good les­son,” Har­ry told Hermione as they head­ed back to­ward the cas­tle. “They're good, nif­flers, aren't they, Ron?”

Ron, how­ev­er, was frown­ing at the choco­late Ha­grid had giv­en him. He looked thor­ough­ly put out about some­thing.

“What's the mat­ter?” said Har­ry. “Wrong fla­vor?”

“No,” said Ron short­ly. “Why didn't you tell me about the gold?”

“What gold?” said Har­ry.

“The gold I gave you at the Quid­ditch World Cup,” said Ron. “The lep­rechaun gold I gave you for my Om­nioc­ulars. In the Top Box. Why didn't you tell me it dis­ap­peared?”

Har­ry had to think for a mo­ment be­fore he re­al­ized what Ron was talk­ing about.

“Oh…” he said, the mem­ory com­ing back to him at last. “I dun­no…I nev­er no­ticed it had gone. I was more wor­ried about my wand, wasn't I?”

They climbed the steps in­to the en­trance hall and went in­to the Great Hall for lunch.

“Must be nice,” Ron said abrupt­ly, when they had sat down and start­ed serv­ing them­selves roast beef and York­shire pud­dings. “To have so much mon­ey you don't no­tice if a pock­et­ful of Galleons goes miss­ing.”

“Lis­ten, I had oth­er stuff on my mind that night!” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly. “We all did, re­mem­ber?”

“I didn't know lep­rechaun gold van­ish­es,” Ron mut­tered. “I thought I was pay­ing you back. You shouldn't've giv­en me that Chud­ley Can­non hat for Christ­mas.”

“For­get it, all right?” said Har­ry.

Ron speared a roast pota­to on the end of his fork, glar­ing at it. Then he said, “I hate be­ing poor.”

Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er. Nei­ther of them re­al­ly knew what to say.

“It's rub­bish,” said Ron, still glar­ing down at his pota­to. “I don't blame Fred and George for try­ing to make some ex­tra mon­ey. Wish I could. Wish I had a nif­fler.”

“Well, we know what to get you next Christ­mas,” said Hermione bright­ly. Then, when Ron con­tin­ued to look gloomy, she said, “Come on, Ron, it could be worse. At least your fin­gers aren't full of pus.” Hermione was hav­ing a lot of dif­fi­cul­ty man­ag­ing her knife and fork, her fin­gers were so stiff and swollen. “I hate that Skeeter wom­an!” she burst out sav­age­ly. “I'll get her back for this if it's the last thing I do!”



Hate mail con­tin­ued to ar­rive for Hermione over the fol­low­ing week, and al­though she fol­lowed Ha­grid's ad­vice and stopped open­ing it, sev­er­al of her ill-​wish­ers sent Howlers, which ex­plod­ed at the Gryffind­or ta­ble and shrieked in­sults at her for the whole Hall to hear. Even those peo­ple who didn't read Witch Week­ly knew all about the sup­posed Har­ry-​Krum-​Hermione tri­an­gle now. Har­ry was get­ting sick of telling peo­ple that Hermione wasn't his girl­friend.

“It'll die down, though,” he told Hermione, "if we just ig­nore it.…Peo­ple got bored with that stuff she wrote about me last time.

“I want to know how she's lis­ten­ing in­to pri­vate con­ver­sa­tions when she's sup­posed to be banned from the grounds!” said Hermione an­gri­ly.

Hermione hung back in their next De­fense Against the Dark Arts les­son to ask Pro­fes­sor Moody some­thing. The rest of the class was very ea­ger to leave; Moody had giv­en them such a rig­or­ous test of hex-​de­flec­tion that many of them were nurs­ing small in­juries. Har­ry had such a bad case of Twitchy Ears, he had to hold his hands clamped over them as he walked away from the class.

“Well, Ri­ta's def­inite­ly not us­ing an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak!” Hermione pant­ed five min­utes lat­er, catch­ing up with Har­ry and Ron in the en­trance hall and pulling Har­ry's hand away from one of his wig­gling ears so that he could hear her. “Moody says he didn't see her any­where near the judges' ta­ble at the sec­ond task, or any­where near the lake!”

“Hermione, is there any point in telling you to drop this?” said Ron.

“No!” said Hermione stub­born­ly. “I want to know how she heard me talk­ing to Vik­tor! And how she found out about Ha­grid's mum!”

“Maybe she had you bugged,” said Har­ry.

“Bugged?” said Ron blankly. “What…put fleas on her or some­thing?”

Har­ry start­ed ex­plain­ing about hid­den mi­cro­phones and record­ing equip­ment. Ron was fas­ci­nat­ed, but Hermione in­ter­rupt­ed them.

“Aren't you two ev­er go­ing to read Hog­warts, A His­to­ry”

“What's the point?” said Ron. “You know it by heart, we can just ask you.”

“All those sub­sti­tutes for mag­ic Mug­gles use - elec­tric­ity, com­put­ers, and radar, and all those things - they all go hay­wire around Hog­warts, there's too much mag­ic in the air. No, Ri­ta's us­ing mag­ic to eaves­drop, she must be.…If I could just find out what it is…ooh, if it's il­le­gal, I'll have her…”

“Haven't we got enough to wor­ry about?” Ron asked her. “Do we have to start a vendet­ta against Ri­ta Skeeter as well?”

“I'm not ask­ing you to help!” Hermione snapped. “I'll do it on my own!”

She marched back up the mar­ble stair­case with­out a back­ward glance. Har­ry was quite sure she was go­ing to the li­brary.

“What's the bet­ting she comes back with a box of / Hate Ri­ta Skeeter badges?” said Ron.

Hermione, how­ev­er, did not ask Har­ry and Ron to help her pur­sue vengeance against Ri­ta Skeeter, for which they were both grate­ful, be­cause their work­load was mount­ing ev­er high­er in the days be­fore the East­er hol­idays. Har­ry frankly mar­veled at the fact that Hermione could re­search mag­ical meth­ods of eaves­drop­ping as well as ev­ery­thing else they had to do. He was work­ing flat-​out just to get through all their home­work, though he made a point of send­ing reg­ular food pack­ages up to the cave in the moun­tain for Sir­ius; af­ter last sum­mer, Har­ry had not for­got­ten what it felt like to be con­tin­ual­ly hun­gry. He en­closed notes to Sir­ius, telling him that noth­ing out of the or­di­nary had hap­pened, and that they were still wait­ing for an an­swer from Per­cy.

Hed­wig didn't re­turn un­til the end of the East­er hol­idays. Per­cy's let­ter was en­closed in a pack­age of East­er eggs that Mrs. Weasley had sent. Both Har­ry's and Ron's were the size of drag­on eggs and full of home­made tof­fee. Hermione's, how­ev­er, was small­er than a chick­en egg. Her face fell when she saw it.

“Your mum doesn't read Witch Week­ly, by any chance, does she, Ron?” she asked qui­et­ly.

“Yeah,” said Ron, whose mouth was full of tof­fee. “Gets it for the recipes.”

Hermione looked sad­ly at her tiny egg.

“Don't you want to see what Per­cy's writ­ten?” Har­ry asked her hasti­ly.

Per­cy's let­ter was short and ir­ri­tat­ed.



As I am con­stant­ly telling the Dai­ly Prophet, Mr. Crouch is tak­ing a well-​de­served break. He is send­ing in reg­ular owls with in­struc­tions. No, I haven't ac­tu­al­ly seen him, but I think I can be trust­ed to know my own su­pe­ri­or's hand­writ­ing. I have quite enough to do at the mo­ment with­out try­ing to quash these ridicu­lous ru­mors. Please don't both­er me again un­less it's some­thing im­por­tant. Hap­py East­er.



The start of the sum­mer term would nor­mal­ly have meant that Har­ry was train­ing hard for the last Quid­ditch match of the sea­son. This year, how­ev­er, it was the third and fi­nal task in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment for which he need­ed to pre­pare, but he still didn't know what he would have to do. Fi­nal­ly, in the last week of May, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall held him back in Trans­fig­ura­tion.

“You are to go down to the Quid­ditch field tonight at nine o'clock. Pot­ter,” she told him. “Mr. Bag­man will be there to tell the cham­pi­ons about the third task.”

So at half past eight that night. Har­ry left Ron and Hermione in Gryffind­or Tow­er and went down­stairs. As he crossed the en­trance hall, Cedric came up from the Huf­flepuff com­mon room.

“What d'you reck­on it's go­ing to be?” he asked Har­ry as they went to­geth­er down the stone steps, out in­to the cloudy night. “Fleur keeps go­ing on about un­der­ground tun­nels; she reck­ons we've got to find trea­sure.”

“That wouldn't be too bad,” said Har­ry, think­ing that he would sim­ply ask Ha­grid for a nif­fler to do the job for him.

They walked down the dark lawn to the Quid­ditch sta­di­um, turned through a gap in the stands, and walked out on­to the field.

“What've they done to it?” Cedric said in­dig­nant­ly, stop­ping dead.

The Quid­ditch field was no longer smooth and flat. It looked as though some­body had been build­ing long, low walls all over it that twist­ed and criss­crossed in ev­ery di­rec­tion.

“They're hedges!” said Har­ry, bend­ing to ex­am­ine the near­est one.

“Hel­lo there!” called a cheery voice.

Lu­do Bag­man was stand­ing in the mid­dle of the field with Krum and Fleur. Har­ry and Cedric made their way to­ward them, climb­ing over the hedges. Fleur beamed at Har­ry as he came near­er. Her at­ti­tude to­ward him had changed com­plete­ly since he had saved her sis­ter from the lake.

“Well, what d'you think?” said Bag­man hap­pi­ly as Har­ry and Cedric climbed over the last hedge. “Grow­ing nice­ly, aren't they? Give them a month and Ha­grid'll have them twen­ty feet high. Don't wor­ry,” he added, grin­ning, spot­ting the less-​than-​hap­py ex­pres­sions on Har­ry's and Cedric's faces, “you'll have your Quid­ditch field back to nor­mal once the task is over! Now, I imag­ine you can guess what we're mak­ing here?”

No one spoke for a mo­ment. Then -

“Maze,” grunt­ed Krum.

“That's right!” said Bag­man. “A maze. The third task's re­al­ly very straight­for­ward. The Tri­wiz­ard Cup will be placed in the cen­ter of the maze. The first cham­pi­on to touch it will re­ceive full marks.”

“We seem­ply 'ave to get through the maze?” said Fleur.

“There will be ob­sta­cles,” said Bag­man hap­pi­ly, bounc­ing on the balls of his feet. “Ha­grid is pro­vid­ing a num­ber of crea­tures…then there will be spells that must be bro­ken…all that sort of thing, you know. Now, the cham­pi­ons who are lead­ing on points will get a head start in­to the maze.” Bag­man grinned at Har­ry and Cedric. “Then Mr. Krum will en­ter…then Miss Dela­cour. But you'll all be in with a fight­ing chance, de­pend­ing how well you get past the ob­sta­cles. Should be fun, eh?”

Har­ry, who knew on­ly too well the kind of crea­tures that Ha­grid was like­ly to pro­vide for an event like this, thought it was un­like­ly to be any fun at all. How­ev­er, he nod­ded po­lite­ly like the oth­er cham­pi­ons.

“Very well…if you haven't got any ques­tions, we'll go back up to the cas­tle, shall we, it's a bit chilly.…”

Bag­man hur­ried along­side Har­ry as they be­gan to wend their way out of the grow­ing maze. Har­ry had the feel­ing that Bag­man was go­ing to start of­fer­ing to help him again, but just then, Krum tapped Har­ry on the shoul­der.

“Could I haff a vord?”

“Yeah, all right,” said Har­ry, slight­ly sur­prised.

“Vill you valk vith me?”

“Okay,” said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly.

Bag­man looked slight­ly per­turbed.

“I'll wait for you. Har­ry, shall I?”

“No, it's okay, Mr. Bag­man,” said Har­ry, sup­press­ing a smile, “I think I can find the cas­tle on my own, thanks.”

Har­ry and Krum left the sta­di­um to­geth­er, but Krum did not set a course for the Durm­strang ship. In­stead, he walked to­ward the for­est.

“What're we go­ing this way for?” said Har­ry as they passed Ha­grid's cab­in and the il­lu­mi­nat­ed Beaux­ba­tons car­riage.

“Don't vont to be over­heard,” said Krum short­ly.

When at last they had reached a qui­et stretch of ground a short way from the Beaux­ba­tons hors­es' pad­dock, Krum stopped in the shade of the trees and turned to face Har­ry.

“I vant to know,” he said, glow­er­ing, “vot there is be­tween you and Hermy-​own-​nin­ny.”

Har­ry, who from Krum's se­cre­tive man­ner had ex­pect­ed some­thing much more se­ri­ous than this, stared up at Krum in amaze­ment.

“Noth­ing,” he said. But Krum glow­ered at him, and Har­ry, some­how struck anew by how tall Krum was, elab­orat­ed. “We're friends. She's not my girl­friend and she nev­er has been. It's just that Skeeter wom­an mak­ing things up.”

“Hermy-​own-​nin­ny talks about you very of­ten,” said Krum, look­ing sus­pi­cious­ly at Har­ry.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “be­cause were friends.”

He couldn't quite be­lieve he was hav­ing this con­ver­sa­tion with Vik­tor Krum, the fa­mous In­ter­na­tion­al Quid­ditch play­er. It was as though the eigh­teen-​year-​old Krum thought he. Har­ry, was an equal - a re­al ri­val -

“You haff nev­er…you haff not…”

“No,” said Har­ry very firm­ly.

Krum looked slight­ly hap­pi­er. He stared at Har­ry for a few sec­onds, then said, “You fly very veil. I vos votch­ing at the first task.”

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, grin­ning broad­ly and sud­den­ly feel­ing much taller him­self. “I saw you at the Quid­ditch World Cup. The Wron­ski Feint, you re­al­ly -”

But some­thing moved be­hind Krum in the trees, and Har­ry, who had some ex­pe­ri­ence of the sort of thing that lurked in the for­est, in­stinc­tive­ly grabbed Krum's arm and pulled him around.

“Vot is it?”

Har­ry shook his head, star­ing at the place where he'd seen move­ment. He slipped his hand in­side his robes, reach­ing for his wand.

Sud­den­ly a man stag­gered out from be­hind a tall oak. For a mo­ment, Har­ry didn't rec­og­nize him…then he re­al­ized it was Mr. Crouch.

He looked as though he had been trav­el­ing for days. The knees of his robes were ripped and bloody, his face scratched; he was un­shaven and gray with ex­haus­tion. His neat hair and mus­tache were both in need of a wash and a trim. His strange ap­pear­ance, how­ev­er, was noth­ing to the way he was be­hav­ing. Mut­ter­ing and ges­tic­ulat­ing, Mr. Crouch ap­peared to be talk­ing to some­one that he alone could see. He re­mind­ed Har­ry vivid­ly of an old tramp he had seen once when out shop­ping with the Durs­leys. That man too had been con­vers­ing wild­ly with thin air; Aunt Petu­nia had seized Dud­ley's hand and pulled him across the road to avoid him; Un­cle Ver­non had then treat­ed the fam­ily to a long rant about what he would like to do with beg­gars and va­grants.

“Vosn't he a judge?” said Krum, star­ing at Mr. Crouch. “Isn't he vith your Min­istry?”

Har­ry nod­ded, hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then walked slow­ly to­ward Mr. Crouch, who did not look at him, but con­tin­ued to talk to a near­by tree.

“…and when you've done that, Weath­er­by, send an owl to Dum­ble­dore con­firm­ing the num­ber of Durm­strang stu­dents who will be at­tend­ing the tour­na­ment, Karkaroff has just sent word there will be twelve.…”

“Mr. Crouch?” said Har­ry cau­tious­ly.

“…and then send an­oth­er owl to Madame Maxime, be­cause she might want to up the num­ber of stu­dents she's bring­ing, now Karkaroff's made it a round dozen…do that, Weath­er­by, will you? Will you? Will…”

Mr. Crouch's eyes were bulging. He stood star­ing at the tree, mut­ter­ing sound­less­ly at it. Then he stag­gered side­ways and fell to his knees.

“Mr. Crouch?” Har­ry said loud­ly. “Are you all right?”

Crouch's eyes were rolling in his head. Har­ry looked around at Krum, who had fol­lowed him in­to the trees, and was look­ing down at Crouch in alarm.

“Vot is wrong with him?”

“No idea,” Har­ry mut­tered. “Lis­ten, you'd bet­ter go and get some­one -”

“Dum­ble­dore!” gasped Mr. Crouch. He reached out and seized a hand­ful of Har­ry's robes, drag­ging him clos­er, though his eyes were star­ing over Har­ry's head. “I need…see…Dum­ble­dore.…”

“Okay,” said Har­ry, “if you get up, Mr. Crouch, we can go up to the-”

“I've done…stupid…thing…” Mr. Crouch breathed. He looked ut­ter­ly mad. His eyes were rolling and bulging, and a trick­le of spit­tle was slid­ing down his chin. Ev­ery word he spoke seemed to cost him a ter­ri­ble ef­fort. “Must…tell…Dum­ble­dore…”

“Get up, Mr. Crouch,” said Har­ry loud­ly and clear­ly. “Get up, I'll take you to Dum­ble­dore!”

Mr., Crouch's eyes rolled for­ward on­to Har­ry.

“Who…you?” he whis­pered.

“I'm a stu­dent at the school,” said Har­ry, look­ing around at Krum for some help, but Krum was hang­ing back, look­ing ex­treme­ly ner­vous.

“You're not…his?” whis­pered Crouch, his mouth sag­ging.

“No,” said Har­ry, with­out the faintest idea what Crouch was talk­ing about.

“Dum­ble­dore's?”

“That's right,” said Har­ry.

Crouch was pulling him clos­er; Har­ry tried to loosen Crouch's grip on his robes, but it was too pow­er­ful.

“Warn…Dum­ble­dore…”

“I'll get Dum­ble­dore if you let go of me,” said Har­ry. “Just let go, Mr. Crouch, and I'll get him.…”

“Thank you, Weath­er­by, and when you have done that, I would like a cup of tea. My wife and son will be ar­riv­ing short­ly, we are at­tend­ing a con­cert tonight with Mr. and Mrs. Fudge.”

Crouch was now talk­ing flu­ent­ly to a tree again, and seemed com­plete­ly un­aware that Har­ry was there, which sur­prised Har­ry so much he didn't no­tice that Crouch had re­leased him.

“Yes, my son has re­cent­ly gained twelve O.W.L.s, most sat­is­fac­to­ry, yes, thank you, yes, very proud in­deed. Now, if you could bring me that memo from the An­dor­ran Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, I think I will have time to draft a re­sponse.…”

“You stay here with him!” Har­ry said to Krum. “I'll get Dum­ble­dore, I'll be quick­er, I know where his of­fice is -”

“He is mad,” said Krum doubt­ful­ly, star­ing down at Crouch, who was still gab­bling to the tree, ap­par­ent­ly con­vinced it was Per­cy.

“Just stay with him,” said Har­ry, start­ing to get up, but his move­ment seemed to trig­ger an­oth­er abrupt change in Mr. Crouch, who seized him hard around the knees and pulled Har­ry back to the ground.

“Don't…leave…me!” he whis­pered, his eyes bulging again. “I…es­caped…must warn…must tell…see Dum­ble­dore…my fault…all my fault…Bertha…dead…all my fault…my son…my fault…tell Dum­ble­dore …Har­ry Pot­ter…the Dark Lord…stronger…Har­ry Pot­ter…”

“I'll get Dum­ble­dore if you let me go, Mr. Crouch!” said Har­ry. He looked fu­ri­ous­ly around at Krum. “Help me, will you?”

Look­ing ex­treme­ly ap­pre­hen­sive, Krum moved for­ward and squat­ted down next to Mr. Crouch.

“Just keep him here,” said Har­ry, pulling him­self free of Mr. Crouch. “I'll be back with Dum­ble­dore.”

“Hur­ry, von't you?” Krum called af­ter him as Har­ry sprint­ed away from the for­est and up through the dark grounds. They were de­sert­ed; Bag­man, Cedric, and Fleur had dis­ap­peared. Har­ry tore up the stone steps, through the oak front doors, and off up the mar­ble stair­case, to­ward the sec­ond floor.

Five min­utes lat­er he was hurtling to­ward a stone gar­goyle stand­ing halfway along an emp­ty cor­ri­dor.

“Sher - sher­bet lemon!” he pant­ed at it.

This was the pass­word to the hid­den stair­case to Dum­ble­dore's of­fice - or at least, it had been two years ago. The pass­word had ev­ident­ly changed, how­ev­er, for the stone gar­goyle did not spring to life and jump aside, but stood frozen, glar­ing at Har­ry malev­olent­ly.

“Move!” Har­ry shout­ed at it. “C'mon!”

But noth­ing at Hog­warts had ev­er moved just be­cause he shout­ed at it; he knew it was no good. He looked up and down the dark cor­ri­dor. Per­haps Dum­ble­dore was in the staffroom? He start­ed run­ning as fast as he could to­ward the stair­case -

“POT­TER!”

Har­ry skid­ded to a halt and looked around. Snape had just emerged from the hid­den stair­case be­hind the stone gar­goyle. The wall was slid­ing shut be­hind him even as he beck­oned Har­ry back to­ward him.

“What are you do­ing here, Pot­ter?”

“I need to see Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore!” said Har­ry, run­ning back up the cor­ri­dor and skid­ding to a stand­still in front of Snape in­stead. “It's Mr. Crouch…he's just turned up…he's in the for­est…he's ask­ing -”

“What is this rub­bish?” said Snape, his black eyes glit­ter­ing. “What are you talk­ing about?”

“Mr. Crouch!” Har­ry shout­ed. “From the Min­istry! He's ill or some­thing - he's in the for­est, he wants to see Dum­ble­dore! Just give me the pass­word up to -”

“The head­mas­ter is busy. Pot­ter,” said Snape, his thin mouth curl­ing in­to an un­pleas­ant smile.

“I've got to tell Dum­ble­dore!” Har­ry yelled.

“Didn't you hear me. Pot­ter?”

Har­ry could tell Snape was thor­ough­ly en­joy­ing him­self, deny­ing Har­ry the thing he want­ed when he was so pan­icky.

“Look,” said Har­ry an­gri­ly, “Crouch isn't right - he's - he's out of his mind - he says he wants to warn -”

The stone wall be­hind Snape slid open. Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing there, wear­ing long green robes and a mild­ly cu­ri­ous ex­pres­sion. “Is there a prob­lem?” he said, look­ing be­tween Har­ry and Snape.

“Pro­fes­sor!” Har­ry said, sidestep­ping Snape be­fore Snape could speak, “Mr. Crouch is here - he's down in the for­est, he wants to speak to you!”

Har­ry ex­pect­ed Dum­ble­dore to ask ques­tions, but to his re­lief, Dum­ble­dore did noth­ing of the sort.

“Lead the way,” he said prompt­ly, and he swept off along the cor­ri­dor be­hind Har­ry, leav­ing Snape stand­ing next to the gar­goyle and look­ing twice as ug­ly.

“What did Mr. Crouch say. Har­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore as they walked swift­ly down the mar­ble stair­case.

“Said he wants to warn you…said he's done some­thing ter­ri­ble…he men­tioned his son…and Bertha Jorkins…and - and Volde­mort…some­thing about Volde­mort get­ting stronger.…”

“In­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he quick­ened his pace as they hur­ried out in­to the pitch-​dark­ness.

“He's not act­ing nor­mal­ly,” Har­ry said, hur­ry­ing along be­side Dum­ble­dore. “He doesn't seem to know where he is. He keeps talk­ing like he thinks Per­cy Weasley's there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see you.…I left him with Vik­tor Krum.”

“You did?” said Dum­ble­dore sharply, and he be­gan to take longer strides still, so that Har­ry was run­ning to keep up. “Do you know if any­body else saw Mr. Crouch?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “Krum and I were talk­ing, Mr. Bag­man had just fin­ished telling us about the third task, we stayed be­hind, and then we saw Mr. Crouch com­ing out of the for­est -”

“Where are they?” said Dum­ble­dore as the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage emerged from the dark­ness.

“Over here,” said Har­ry, mov­ing in front of Dum­ble­dore, lead­ing the way through the trees. He couldn't hear Crouch's voice any­more, but he knew where he was go­ing; it hadn't been much past the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage…some­where around here.…

“Vik­tor?” Har­ry shout­ed.

No one an­swered.

“They were here,” Har­ry said to Dum­ble­dore. “They were def­inite­ly some­where around here.…”

“Lu­mos,” Dum­ble­dore said, light­ing his wand and hold­ing it up.

Its nar­row beam trav­eled from black trunk to black trunk, il­lu­mi­nat­ing the ground. And then it fell up­on a pair of feet.

Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore hur­ried for­ward. Krum was sprawled on the for­est floor. He seemed to be un­con­scious. There was no sign at all of Mr. Crouch. Dum­ble­dore bent over Krum and gen­tly lift­ed one of his eye­lids.

“Stunned,” he said soft­ly. His half-​moon glass­es glit­tered in the wan­dlight as he peered around at the sur­round­ing trees.

“Should I go and get some­one?” said Har­ry. “Madam Pom­frey?”

“No,” said Dum­ble­dore swift­ly. “Stay here.”

He raised his wand in­to the air and point­ed it in the di­rec­tion of Ha­grid's cab­in. Har­ry saw some­thing sil­very dart out of it and streak away through the trees like a ghost­ly bird. Then Dum­ble­dore bent over Krum again, point­ed his wand at him, and mut­tered, “En­ner­vate.”

Krum opened his eyes. He looked dazed. When he saw Dum­ble­dore, he tried to sit up, but Dum­ble­dore put a hand on his shoul­der and made him lie still.

“He at­tacked me!” Krum mut­tered, putting a hand up to his head. “The old mad­man at­tacked me! I vos look­ing around to see vare Pot­ter had gone and he at­tacked from be­hind!”

“Lie still for a mo­ment,” Dum­ble­dore said.

The sound of thun­der­ous foot­falls reached them, and Ha­grid came pant­ing in­to sight with Fang at his heels. He was car­ry­ing his cross­bow.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore!” he said, his eyes widen­ing. “Har­ry - what the -?”

“Ha­grid, I need you to fetch Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff,” said Dum­ble­dore. “His stu­dent has been at­tacked. When you've done that, kind­ly alert Pro­fes­sor Moody -”

“No need, Dum­ble­dore,” said a wheezy growl. “I'm here.”

Moody was limp­ing to­ward them, lean­ing on his staff, his wand lit.

“Damn leg,” he said fu­ri­ous­ly. “Would've been here quick­er…what's hap­pened? Snape said some­thing about Crouch -”

“Crouch?” said Ha­grid blankly.

“Karkaroff, please, Ha­grid!” said Dum­ble­dore sharply.

“Oh yeah…right y'are, Pro­fes­sor…” said Ha­grid, and he turned and dis­ap­peared in­to the dark trees, Fang trot­ting af­ter him.

“I don't know where Bar­ty Crouch is,” Dum­ble­dore told Moody, “but it is es­sen­tial that we find him.”

“I'm on­to it,” growled Moody, and he pulled out his wand and limped off in­to the for­est.

Nei­ther Dum­ble­dore nor Har­ry spoke again un­til they heard the un­mis­tak­able sounds of Ha­grid and Fang re­turn­ing. Karkaroff was hur­ry­ing along be­hind them. He was wear­ing his sleek sil­ver furs, and he looked pale and ag­itat­ed.

“What is this?” he cried when he saw Krum on the ground and Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry be­side him. “What's go­ing on?”

“I vos at­tacked!” said Krum, sit­ting up now and rub­bing his head. “Mr. Crouch or votev­er his name -”

“Crouch at­tacked you? Crouch at­tacked you? The Tri­wiz­ard judge?”

“Ig­or,” Dum­ble­dore be­gan, but Karkaroff had drawn him­self up, clutch­ing his furs around him, look­ing livid.

“Treach­ery!” he bel­lowed, point­ing at Dum­ble­dore. “It is a plot! You and your Min­istry of Mag­ic have lured me here un­der false pre­tens­es, Dum­ble­dore! This is not an equal com­pe­ti­tion! First you sneak Pot­ter in­to the tour­na­ment, though he is un­der­age! Now one of your Min­istry friends at­tempts to put my cham­pi­on out of ac­tion! I smell dou­ble-​deal­ing and cor­rup­tion in this whole af­fair, and you, Dum­ble­dore, you, with your talk of clos­er in­ter­na­tion­al wiz­ard­ing links, of re­build­ing old ties, of for­get­ting old dif­fer­ences - here's what I think of you!”

Karkaroff spat on­to the ground at Dum­ble­dore's feet. In one swift move­ment, Ha­grid seized the front of Karkaroff's furs, lift­ed him in­to the air, and slammed him against a near­by tree.

“Apol­ogize!” Ha­grid snarled as Karkaroff gasped for breath, Ha­grid's mas­sive fist at his throat, his feet dan­gling in midair.

“Ha­grid, no!” Dum­ble­dore shout­ed, his eyes flash­ing.

Ha­grid re­moved the hand pin­ning Karkaroff to the tree, and Karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk and slumped in a hud­dle at its roots; a few twigs and leaves show­ered down up­on his head.

“Kind­ly es­cort Har­ry back up to the cas­tle, Ha­grid,” said Dum­ble­dore sharply.

Breath­ing heav­ily, Ha­grid gave Karkaroff a glow­er­ing look.

“Maybe I'd bet­ter stay here. Head­mas­ter.…”

“You will take Har­ry back to school, Ha­grid,” Dum­ble­dore re­peat­ed firm­ly. “Take him right up to Gryffind­or Tow­er. And Har­ry - I want you to stay there. Any­thing you might want to do - any owls you might want to send - they can wait un­til morn­ing, do you un­der­stand me?”

“Er - yes,” said Har­ry, star­ing at him. How had Dum­ble­dore known that, at that very mo­ment, he had been think­ing about send­ing Pig­wid­geon straight to Sir­ius, to tell him what had hap­pened?

“I'll leave Fang with yeh. Head­mas­ter,” Ha­grid said, star­ing men­ac­ing­ly at Karkaroff, who was still sprawled at the foot of the tree, tan­gled in furs and tree roots. “Stay, Fang. C'mon, Har­ry.”

They marched in si­lence past the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage and up to­ward the cas­tle.

“How dare he,” Ha­grid growled as they strode past the lake. “How dare he ac­cuse Dum­ble­dore. Like Dum­ble­dore'd do any­thin' like that. Like Dum­ble­dore want­ed you in the tour­na­ment in the firs' place. Wor­ried! I dun­no when I seen Dum­ble­dore more wor­ried than he's bin late­ly. An' you!” Ha­grid sud­den­ly said an­gri­ly to Har­ry, who looked up at him, tak­en aback. “What were yeh doin', wan­derin' off with rud­dy Krum? He's from Durm­strang, Har­ry! Coul­da jinxed yeh right there, couldn he? Hasn' Moody taught yeh noth­in'? 'Mag­ine let­tin him lure yeh off on yer own -”

“Krum's all right!” said Har­ry as they climbed the steps in­to the en­trance hall. “He wasn't try­ing to jinx me, he just want­ed to talk about Hermione -”

“I'll be havin' a few words with her, an' all,” said Ha­grid grim­ly, stomp­ing up the stairs. “The less you lot 'ave ter do with these for­eign­ers, the hap­pi­er yeh'll be. Yeh can trust any of 'em.”

“You were get­ting on all right with Madame Maxime,” Har­ry said, an­noyed.

“Don' you talk ter me abou' her!” said Ha­grid, and he looked quite fright­en­ing for a mo­ment. “I've got her num­ber now! Tryin' ter get back in me good books, tryin' ter get me ter tell her what's comin in the third task. Ha! You can' trust any of'em!”

Ha­grid was in such a bad mood, Har­ry was quite glad to say good-​bye to him in front of the Fat La­dy. He clam­bered through the por­trait hole in­to the com­mon room and hur­ried straight for the cor­ner where Ron and Hermione were sit­ting, to tell them what had hap­pened.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE


THE DREAM



I t comes down to this,“ said Hermione, rub­bing her fore­head. ”Ei­ther Mr. Crouch at­tacked Vik­tor, or some­body else at­tacked both of them when Vik­tor wasn't look­ing."

“It must've been Crouch,” said Ron at once. “That's why he was gone when Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore got there. He'd done a run­ner.”

“I don't think so,” said Har­ry, shak­ing his head. “He seemed re­al­ly weak - I don't reck­on he was up to Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing or any­thing.”

“You can't Dis­ap­pa­rate on the Hog­warts grounds, haven't I told you enough times?” said Hermione.

“Okay…hows this for a the­ory,” said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly. “Krum at­tacked Crouch - no, wait for it - and then Stunned him­self!”

“And Mr. Crouch evap­orat­ed, did he?” said Hermione cold­ly.

“Oh yeah…”

It was day­break. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had crept out of their dor­mi­to­ries very ear­ly and hur­ried up to the Owlery to­geth­er to send a note to Sir­ius. Now they were stand­ing look­ing out at the misty grounds. All three of them were puffy-​eyed and pale be­cause they had been talk­ing late in­to the night about Mr. Crouch.

“Just go through it again, Har­ry,” said Hermione. “What did Mr. Crouch ac­tu­al­ly say?”

“I've told you, he wasn't mak­ing much sense,” said Har­ry. “He said he want­ed to warn Dum­ble­dore about some­thing. He def­inite­ly men­tioned Bertha Jorkins, and he seemed to think she was dead. He kept say­ing stuff was his fault.…He men­tioned his son.”

“Well, that was his fault,” said Hermione testi­ly.

“He was out of his mind,” said Har­ry. “Half the time he seemed to think his wife and son were still alive, and he kept talk­ing to Per­cy about work and giv­ing him in­struc­tions.”

“And…re­mind me what he said about You-​Know-​Who?” said Ron ten­ta­tive­ly.

“I've told you,” Har­ry re­peat­ed dul­ly. “He said he's get­ting stronger.”

There was a pause. Then Ron said in a false­ly con­fi­dent voice, “But he was out of his mind, like you said, so half of it was prob­ably just rav­ing.…”

“He was san­est when he was try­ing to talk about Volde­mort,” said Har­ry, and Ron winced at the sound of the name. “He was hav­ing re­al trou­ble string­ing two words to­geth­er, but that was when he seemed to know where he was, and know what he want­ed to do. He just kept say­ing he had to see Dum­ble­dore.”

Har­ry turned away from the win­dow and stared up in­to the rafters. The many perch­es were half-​emp­ty; ev­ery now and then, an­oth­er owl would swoop in through one of the win­dows, re­turn­ing from its night's hunt­ing with a mouse in its beak.

“If Snape hadn't held me up,” Har­ry said bit­ter­ly, “we might've got there in time. 'The head­mas­ter is busy. Pot­ter…what's this rub­bish, Pot­ter?' Why couldn't he have just got out of the way?”

“Maybe he didn't want you to get there!” said Ron quick­ly. “Maybe - hang on - how fast d'you reck­on he could've got­ten down to the for­est? D'you reck­on he could've beat­en you and Dum­ble­dore there?”

“Not un­less he can turn him­self in­to a bat or some­thing,” said Har­ry.

“Wouldn't put it past him,” Ron mut­tered.

“We need to see Pro­fes­sor Moody,” said Hermione. “We need to find out whether he found Mr. Crouch.”

“If he had the Ma­raud­er's Map on him, it would've been easy,” said Har­ry.

“Un­less Crouch was al­ready out­side the grounds,” said Ron, “be­cause it on­ly shows up to the bound­aries, doesn't -”

“Shh!” said Hermione sud­den­ly.

Some­body was climb­ing the steps up to the Owlery. Har­ry could hear two voic­es ar­gu­ing, com­ing clos­er and clos­er.

“- that's black­mail, that is, we could get in­to a lot of trou­ble for that-”

“- we've tried be­ing po­lite; it's time to play dirty, like him. He wouldn't like the Min­istry of Mag­ic know­ing what he did -”

“I'm telling you, if you put that in writ­ing, it's black­mail!”

“Yeah, and you won't be com­plain­ing if we get a nice fat pay­off, will you?”

The Owlery door banged open. Fred and George came over the thresh­old, then froze at the sight of Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione.

“What're you do­ing here?” Ron and Fred said at the same time.

“Send­ing a let­ter,” said Har­ry and George in uni­son.

“What, at this time?” said Hermione and Fred.

Fred grinned.

“Fine - we won't ask you what you're do­ing, if you don't ask us,” he said.

He was hold­ing a sealed en­ve­lope in his hands. Har­ry glanced at it, but Fred, whether ac­ci­den­tal­ly or on pur­pose, shift­ed his hand so that the name on it was cov­ered.

“Well, don't let us hold you up,” Fred said, mak­ing a mock bow and point­ing at the door.

Ron didn't move. “Who're you black­mail­ing?” he said.

The grin van­ished from Fred's face. Har­ry saw George half glance at Fred, be­fore smil­ing at Ron.

“Don't be stupid, I was on­ly jok­ing,” he said eas­ily.

“Didn't sound like that,” said Ron.

Fred and George looked at each oth­er. Then Fred said abrupt­ly, “I've told you be­fore, Ron, keep your nose out if you like it the shape it is. Can't see why you would, but -”

“It's my busi­ness if you're black­mail­ing some­one,” said Ron. “George's right, you could end up in se­ri­ous trou­ble for that.”

“Told you, I was jok­ing,” said George. He walked over to Fred, pulled the let­ter out of his hands, and be­gan at­tach­ing it to the leg of the near­est barn owl. “You're start­ing to sound a bit like our dear old­er broth­er, you are, Ron. Car­ry on like this and you'll be made a pre­fect.”

“No, I won't!” said Ron hot­ly.

George car­ried the barn owl over to the win­dow and it took off. George turned around and grinned at Ron.

“Well, stop telling peo­ple what to do then. See you lat­er.”

He and Fred left the Owlery. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione stared at one an­oth­er.

“You don't think they know some­thing about all this, do you?” Hermione whis­pered. “About Crouch and ev­ery­thing?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “If it was some­thing that se­ri­ous, they'd tell some­one. They'd tell Dum­ble­dore.”

Ron, how­ev­er, was look­ing un­com­fort­able.

“What's the mat­ter?” Hermione asked him.

“Well…” said Ron slow­ly, “I dun­no if they would. They're…they're ob­sessed with mak­ing mon­ey late­ly, I no­ticed it when I was hang­ing around with them - when - you know -”

“We weren't talk­ing.” Har­ry fin­ished the sen­tence for him. “Yeah, but black­mail…”

“It's this joke shop idea they've got,” said Ron. “I thought they were on­ly say­ing it to an­noy Mum, but they re­al­ly mean it, they want to start one. They've on­ly got a year left at Hog­warts, they keep go­ing on about how it's time to think about their fu­ture, and Dad can't help them, and they need gold to get start­ed.”

Hermione was look­ing un­com­fort­able now.

“Yes, but…they wouldn't do any­thing against the law to get gold.”

“Wouldn't they?” said Ron, look­ing skep­ti­cal. “I dun­no…they don't ex­act­ly mind break­ing rules, do they?”

“Yes, but this is the law,” said Hermione, look­ing scared. “This isn't some sil­ly school rule.…They'll get a lot more than de­ten­tion for black­mail! Ron…maybe you'd bet­ter tell Per­cy.…”

“Are you mad?” said Ron. “Tell Per­cy? He'd prob­ably do a Crouch and turn them in.” He stared at the win­dow through which Fred and George's owl had de­part­ed, then said, “Come on, let's get some break­fast.”

“D'you think it's too ear­ly to go and see Pro­fes­sor Moody?” Hermione said as they went down the spi­ral stair­case.

“Yes,” said Har­ry. “He'd prob­ably blast us through the door if we wake him at the crack of dawn; he'll think we're try­ing to at­tack him while he's asleep. Let's give it till break.”

His­to­ry of Mag­ic had rarely gone so slow­ly. Har­ry kept check­ing Ron's watch, hav­ing fi­nal­ly dis­card­ed his own, but Ron's was mov­ing so slow­ly he could have sworn it had stopped work­ing too. All three of them were so tired they could hap­pi­ly have put their heads down on the desks and slept; even Hermione wasn't tak­ing her usu­al notes, but was sit­ting with her head on her hand, gaz­ing at Pro­fes­sor Binns with her eyes out of fo­cus.

When the bell fi­nal­ly rang, they hur­ried out in­to the cor­ri­dors to­ward the Dark Arts class­room and found Pro­fes­sor Moody leav­ing it. He looked as tired as they felt. The eye­lid of his nor­mal eye was droop­ing, giv­ing his face an even more lop­sid­ed ap­pear­ance than usu­al.

“Pro­fes­sor Moody?” Har­ry called as they made their way to­ward him through the crowd.

“Hel­lo, Pot­ter,” growled Moody. His mag­ical eye fol­lowed a cou­ple of pass­ing first years, who sped up, look­ing ner­vous; it rolled in­to the back of Moody's head and watched them around the cor­ner be­fore he spoke again.

“Come in here.”

He stood back to let them in­to his emp­ty class­room, limped in af­ter them, and closed the door.

“Did you find him?” Har­ry asked with­out pream­ble. “Mr. Crouch?”

“No,” said Moody. He moved over to his desk, sat down, stretched out his wood­en leg with a slight groan, and pulled out his hip flask.

“Did you use the map?” Har­ry said.

“Of course,” said Moody, tak­ing a swig from his flask. “Took a leaf out of your book, Pot­ter. Sum­moned it from my of­fice in­to the for­est. He wasn't any­where on there.”

“So he did Dis­ap­pa­rate?” said Ron.

“You can't Dis­ap­pa­rate on the grounds, Ron!” said Hermione. “There are oth­er ways he could have dis­ap­peared, aren't there, Pro­fes­sor?”

Moody's mag­ical eye quiv­ered as it rest­ed on Hermione. “You're an­oth­er one who might think about a ca­reer as an Au­ror,” he told her. “Mind works the right way. Granger.”

Hermione flushed pink with plea­sure.

“Well, he wasn't in­vis­ible,” said Har­ry. “The map shows in­vis­ible peo­ple. He must've left the grounds, then.”

“But un­der his own steam?” said Hermione ea­ger­ly, “or be­cause some­one made him?”

“Yeah, some­one could've - could've pulled him on­to a broom and flown off with him, couldn't they?” said Ron quick­ly, look­ing hope­ful­ly at Moody as if he too want­ed to be told he had the mak­ings of an Au­ror.

“We can't rule out kid­nap,” growled Moody.

“So,” said Ron, “d'you reck­on he's some­where in Hogsmeade?”

“Could be any­where,” said Moody, shak­ing his head. “On­ly thing we know for sure is that he's not here.”

He yawned wide­ly, so that his scars stretched, and his lop­sid­ed mouth re­vealed a num­ber of miss­ing teeth. Then he said, “Now, Dum­ble­dore's told me you three fan­cy your­selves as in­ves­ti­ga­tors, but there's noth­ing you can do for Crouch. The Min­istry'll be look­ing for him now, Dum­ble­dore's no­ti­fied them. Pot­ter, you just keep your mind on the third task.”

“What?” said Har­ry. “Oh yeah…”

He hadn't giv­en the maze a sin­gle thought since he'd left it with Krum the pre­vi­ous night.

“Should be right up your street, this one,” said Moody, look­ing up at Har­ry and scratch­ing his scarred and stub­bly chin. “From what Dum­ble­dore's said, you've man­aged to get through stuff like this plen­ty of times. Broke your way through a se­ries of ob­sta­cles guard­ing the Sor­cer­ers Stone in your first year, didn't you?”

“We helped,” Ron said quick­ly. “Me and Hermione helped.”

Moody grinned.

“Well, help him prac­tice for this one, and I'll be very sur­prised if he doesn't win,” said Moody. “In the mean­time…con­stant vig­ilance, Pot­ter. Con­stant vig­ilance.” He took an­oth­er long draw from his hip flask, and his mag­ical eye swiveled on­to the win­dow. The top­most sail of the Durm­strang ship was vis­ible through it.

“You two,” coun­seled Moody, his nor­mal eye on Ron and Hermione, “you stick close to Pot­ter, all right? I'm keep­ing an eye on things, but all the same…you can nev­er have too many eyes out.”



Sir­ius sent their owl back the very next morn­ing. It flut­tered down be­side Har­ry at the same mo­ment that a tawny owl land­ed in front of Hermione, clutch­ing a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet in its beak. She took the news­pa­per, scanned the first few pages, said, “Ha! She hasn't got wind of Crouch!” then joined Ron and Har­ry in read­ing what Sir­ius had to say on the mys­te­ri­ous events of the night be­fore last.



Har­ry - what do you think you are play­ing at, walk­ing off in­to the for­est with Vik­tor Krum? I want you to swear, by re­turn owl, that you are not go­ing to go walk­ing with any­one else at night. There is some­body high­ly dan­ger­ous at Hog­warts. It is clear to me that they want­ed to stop Crouch from see­ing Dum­ble­dore and you were prob­ably feet away from them in the dark. You could have been killed.

Your name didn't get in­to the Gob­let of Fire by ac­ci­dent. If some­one's try­ing to at­tack you, they're on their last chance. Stay close to Ron and Hermione, do not leave Gryffind­or Tow­er af­ter hours, and arm your­self for the third task. Prac­tice Stun­ning and Dis­arm­ing. A few hex­es wouldn't go amiss ei­ther. There's noth­ing you can do about Crouch. Keep your head down and look af­ter your­self. I'm wait­ing for your let­ter giv­ing me your word you won't stray out-​of-​bounds again.

Sir­ius



“Who's he, to lec­ture me about be­ing out-​of-​bounds?” said Har­ry in mild in­dig­na­tion as he fold­ed up Sir­ius's let­ter and put it in­side his robes. “Af­ter all the stuff he did at school!”

“He's wor­ried about you!” said Hermione sharply. “Just like Moody and Ha­grid! So lis­ten to them!”

“No one's tried to at­tack me all year,” said Har­ry. “No one's done any­thing to me at all-”

“Ex­cept put your name in the Gob­let of Fire,” said Hermione. “And they must've done that for a rea­son. Har­ry. Snuf­fles is right. Maybe they've been bid­ing their time. Maybe this is the task they're go­ing to get you.”

“Look,” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, “let's say Sir­ius is right, and some­one Stunned Krum to kid­nap Crouch. Well, they would've been in the trees near us, wouldn't they? But they wait­ed till I was out of the way un­til they act­ed, didn't they? So it doesn't look like I'm their tar­get, does it?”

“They couldn't have made it look like an ac­ci­dent if they'd mur­dered you in the for­est!” said Hermione. “But if you die dur­ing a task-”

“They didn't care about at­tack­ing Krum, did they?” said Har­ry. “Why didn't they just pol­ish me off at the same time? They could've made it look like Krum and I had a du­el or some­thing.”

“Har­ry, I don't un­der­stand it ei­ther,” said Hermione des­per­ate­ly. “I just know there are a lot of odd things go­ing on, and I don't like it.…Moody's right - Sir­ius is right - you've got to get in train­ing for the third task, straight away. And you make sure you write back to Sir­ius and promise him you're not go­ing to go sneak­ing off alone again.”



The Hog­warts grounds nev­er looked more invit­ing than when Har­ry had to stay in­doors. For the next few days he spent all of his free time ei­ther in the li­brary with Hermione and Ron, look­ing up hex­es, or else in emp­ty class­rooms, which they sneaked in­to to prac­tice. Har­ry was con­cen­trat­ing on the Stun­ning Spell, which he had nev­er used be­fore. The trou­ble was that prac­tic­ing it in­volved cer­tain sac­ri­fices on Ron's and Hermione's part.

“Can't we kid­nap Mrs. Nor­ris?” Ron sug­gest­ed on Mon­day lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the mid­dle of their Charms class­room, hav­ing just been Stunned and rea­wo­ken by Har­ry for the fifth time in a row. “Let's Stun her for a bit. Or you could use Dob­by, Har­ry, I bet he'd do any­thing to help you. I'm not com­plain­ing or any­thing” - he got gin­ger­ly to his feet, rub­bing his back­side - “but I'm aching all over.…”

“Well, you keep miss­ing the cush­ions, don't you!” said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly, re­ar­rang­ing the pile of cush­ions they had used for the Ban­ish­ing Spell, which Flitwick had left in a cab­inet. “Just try and fall back­ward!”

“Once you're Stunned, you can't aim too well, Hermione! ”said Ron an­gri­ly. “Why don't you take a turn?”

“Well, I think Har­ry's got it now, any­way,” said Hermione hasti­ly. “And we don't have to wor­ry about Dis­arm­ing, be­cause he's been able to do that for ages.…I think we ought to start on some of these hex­es this evening.”

She looked down the list they had made in the li­brary.

“I like the look of this one,” she said, “this Im­ped­iment Curse. Should slow down any­thing that's try­ing to at­tack you. Har­ry. We'll start with that one.”

The bell rang. They hasti­ly shoved the cush­ions back in­to Flitwick's cup­board and slipped out of the class­room.

“See you at din­ner!” said Hermione, and she set off for Arith­man­cy, while Har­ry and Ron head­ed to­ward North Tow­er, and Div­ina­tion. Broad strips of daz­zling gold sun­light tell across the cor­ri­dor from the high win­dows. The sky out­side was so bright­ly blue it looked as though it had been enam­eled.

“It's go­ing to be boil­ing in Trelawney's room, she nev­er puts out that fire,” said Ron as they start­ed up the stair­case to­ward the sil­ver lad­der and the trap­door.

He was quite right. The dim­ly lit room was swel­ter­ing­ly hot. The fumes from the per­fumed fire were heav­ier than ev­er. Har­ry's head swam as he made his way over to one of the cur­tained win­dows. While Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was look­ing the oth­er way, dis­en­tan­gling her shawl from a lamp, he opened it an inch or so and set­tled back in his chintz arm­chair, so that a soft breeze played across his face. It was ex­treme­ly com­fort­able.

“My dears,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, sit­ting down in her winged arm­chair in front of the class and peer­ing around at them all with her strange­ly en­larged eyes, “we have al­most fin­ished our work on plan­etary div­ina­tion. To­day, how­ev­er, will be an ex­cel­lent op­por­tu­ni­ty to ex­am­ine the ef­fects of Mars, for he is placed most in­ter­est­ing­ly at the present time. If you will all look this way, I will dim the lights.…”

She waved her wand and the lamps went out. The fire was the on­ly source of light now. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney bent down and lift­ed, from un­der her chair, a minia­ture mod­el of the so­lar sys­tem, con­tained with­in a glass dome. It was a beau­ti­ful thing; each of the moons glim­mered in place around the nine plan­ets and the fiery sun, all of them hang­ing in thin air be­neath the glass. Har­ry watched lazi­ly as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney be­gan to point out the fas­ci­nat­ing an­gle Mars was mak­ing to Nep­tune. The heav­ily per­fumed fumes washed over him, and the breeze from the win­dow played across his face. He could hear an in­sect hum­ming gen­tly some­where be­hind the cur­tain. His eye­lids be­gan to droop.…

He was rid­ing on the back of an ea­gle owl, soar­ing through the clear blue sky to­ward an old, ivy-​cov­ered house set high on a hill­side. Low­er and low­er they flew, the wind blow­ing pleas­ant­ly in Har­ry's face, un­til they reached a dark and bro­ken win­dow in the up­per sto­ry of the house and en­tered. Now they were fly­ing along a gloomy pas­sage­way, to a room at the very end…through the door they went, in­to a dark room whose win­dows were board­ed up.…

Har­ry had left the owl's back…he was watch­ing, now, as it flut­tered across the room, in­to a chair with its back to him.…There were two dark shapes on the floor be­side the chair…both of them were stir­ring.…

One was a huge snake…the oth­er was a man…a short, bald­ing man, a man with wa­tery eyes and a point­ed nose…he was wheez­ing and sob­bing on the hearth rug.…

“You are in luck, Worm­tail,” said a cold, high-​pitched voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl had land­ed. “You are very for­tu­nate in­deed. Your blun­der has not ru­ined ev­ery­thing. He is dead.”

“My Lord!” gasped the man on the floor. “My Lord, I am…I am so pleased…and so sor­ry.…”

“Nagi­ni,” said the cold voice, “you are out of luck. I will not be feed­ing Worm­tail to you, af­ter all…but nev­er mind, nev­er mind…there is still Har­ry Pot­ter.…”

The snake hissed. Har­ry could see its tongue flut­ter­ing.

“Now, Worm­tail,” said the cold voice, “per­haps one more lit­tle re­minder why I will not tol­er­ate an­oth­er blun­der from you.…”

“My Lord…no…I beg you…”

The tip of a wand emerged from around the back of the chair. It was point­ing at Worm­tail.

“Cru­cio!” said the cold voice.

Worm­tail screamed, screamed as though ev­ery nerve in his body were on fire, the scream­ing filled Har­ry's ears as the scar on his fore­head seared with pain; he was yelling too…Volde­mort would hear him, would know he was there.…

“Har­ry! Har­ry!”

Har­ry opened his eyes. He was ly­ing on the floor of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's room with his hands over his face. His scar was still burn­ing so bad­ly that his eyes were wa­ter­ing. The pain had been re­al. The whole class was stand­ing around him, and Ron was kneel­ing next to him, look­ing ter­ri­fied.

“You all right?” he said.

“Of course he isn't!” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, look­ing thor­ough­ly ex­cit­ed. Her great eyes loomed over Har­ry, gaz­ing at him. “What was it. Pot­ter? A pre­mo­ni­tion? An ap­pari­tion? What did you see?”

“Noth­ing,” Har­ry lied. He sat up. He could feel him­self shak­ing. He couldn't stop him­self from look­ing around, in­to the shad­ows be­hind him; Volde­mort's voice had sound­ed so close.…

“You were clutch­ing your scar!” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. “You were rolling on the floor, clutch­ing your scar! Come now. Pot­ter, I have ex­pe­ri­ence in these mat­ters!”

Har­ry looked up at her.

“I need to go to the hos­pi­tal wing, I think,” he said. “Bad headache.”

“My dear, you were un­doubt­ed­ly stim­ulat­ed by the ex­traor­di­nary clair­voy­ant vi­bra­tions of my room!” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. “If you leave now, you may lose the op­por­tu­ni­ty to see fur­ther than you have ev­er -”

“I don't want to see any­thing ex­cept a headache cure,” said Har­ry.

He stood up. The class backed away. They all looked un­nerved.

“See you lat­er,” Har­ry mut­tered to Ron, and he picked up his bag and head­ed for the trap­door, ig­nor­ing Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who was wear­ing an ex­pres­sion of great frus­tra­tion, as though she had just been de­nied a re­al treat.

When Har­ry reached the bot­tom of her steplad­der, how­ev­er, he did not set off for the hos­pi­tal wing. He had no in­ten­tion what­so­ev­er of go­ing there. Sir­ius had told him what to do if his scar hurt him again, and Har­ry was go­ing to fol­low his ad­vice: He was go­ing straight to Dum­ble­dore's of­fice. He marched down the cor­ri­dors, think­ing about what he had seen in the dream…it had been as vivid as the one that had awo­ken him on Priv­et Drive.…He ran over the de­tails in his mind, try­ing to make sure he could re­mem­ber them.…He had heard Volde­mort ac­cus­ing Worm­tail of mak­ing a blun­der…but the owl had brought good news, the blun­der had been re­paired, some­body was dead…so Worm­tail was not go­ing to be fed to the snake…he, Har­ry, was go­ing to be fed to it in­stead.…

Har­ry had walked right past the stone gar­goyle guard­ing the en­trance to Dum­ble­dores of­fice with­out notic­ing. He blinked, looked around, re­al­ized what he had done, and re­traced his steps, stop­ping in front of it. Then he re­mem­bered that he didn't know the pass­word.

“Sher­bet lemon?” he tried ten­ta­tive­ly.

The gar­goyle did not move.

“Okay,” said Har­ry, star­ing at it, “Pear Drop. Er - Licorice Wand. Fizzing Whizbee. Drooble's Best Blow­ing Gum. Bertie Bott's Ev­ery Fla­vor Beans…oh no, he doesn't like them, does he?…oh just open, can't you?” he said an­gri­ly. “I re­al­ly need to see him, its ur­gent!”

The gar­goyle re­mained im­mov­able.

Har­ry kicked it, achiev­ing noth­ing but an ex­cru­ci­at­ing pain in his big toe.

“Choco­late Frog!” he yelled an­gri­ly, stand­ing on one leg. “Sug­ar Quill! Cock­roach Clus­ter!”

The gar­goyle sprang to life and jumped aside. Har­ry blinked.

“Cock­roach Clus­ter?” he said, amazed. “I was on­ly jok­ing.…”

He hur­ried through the gap in the walls and stepped on­to the foot of a spi­ral stone stair­case, which moved slow­ly up­ward as the doors closed be­hind him, tak­ing him up to a pol­ished oak door with a brass door knock­er.

He could hear voic­es from in­side the of­fice. He stepped off the mov­ing stair­case and hes­itat­ed, lis­ten­ing.

“Dum­ble­dore, I'm afraid I don't see the con­nec­tion, don't see it at all!” It was the voice of the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, Cor­nelius Fudge. “Lu­do says Berthas per­fect­ly ca­pa­ble of get­ting her­self lost. I agree we would have ex­pect­ed to have found her by now, but all the same, we've no ev­idence of foul play, Dum­ble­dore, none at all. As for her dis­ap­pear­ance be­ing linked with Bar­ty Crouch's!”

“And what do you thinks hap­pened to Bar­ty Crouch, Min­is­ter?” said Moody's growl­ing voice.

“I see two pos­si­bil­ities, Alas­tor,” said Fudge. “Ei­ther Crouch has fi­nal­ly cracked - more than like­ly, I'm sure you'll agree, giv­en his per­son­al his­to­ry - lost his mind, and gone wan­der­ing off some­where -”

“He wan­dered ex­treme­ly quick­ly, if that is the case, Cor­nelius,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly.

“Or else - well…” Fudge sound­ed em­bar­rassed. “Well, I'll re­serve judg­ment un­til af­ter I've seen the place where he was found, but you say it was just past the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage? Dum­ble­dore, you know what that wom­an is?”

“I con­sid­er her to be a very able head­mistress - and an ex­cel­lent dancer,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly.

“Dum­ble­dore, come!” said Fudge an­gri­ly. “Don't you think you might be prej­udiced in her fa­vor be­cause of Ha­grid? They don't all turn out harm­less - if, in­deed, you can call Ha­grid harm­less, with that mon­ster fix­ation he's got -”

“I no more sus­pect Madame Maxime than Ha­grid,” said Dum­ble­dore, just as calm­ly. “I think it pos­si­ble that it is you who are prej­udiced, Cor­nelius.”

“Can we wrap up this dis­cus­sion?” growled Moody.

“Yes, yes, let's go down to the grounds, then,” said Fudge im­pa­tient­ly.

“No, it's not that,” said Moody, “it's just that Pot­ter wants a word with you, Dum­ble­dore. He's just out­side the door.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY


THE PEN­SIEVE



T he door of the of­fice opened.

“Hel­lo, Pot­ter,” said Moody. “Come in, then.”

Har­ry walked in­side. He had been in­side Dum­ble­dore's of­fice once be­fore; it was a very beau­ti­ful, cir­cu­lar room, lined with pic­tures of pre­vi­ous head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es of Hog­warts, all of whom were fast asleep, their chests ris­ing and falling gen­tly.

Cor­nelius Fudge was stand­ing be­side Dum­ble­dore's desk, wear­ing his usu­al pin­striped cloak and hold­ing his lime-​green bowler hat.

“Har­ry!” said Fudge jovial­ly, mov­ing for­ward. “How are you?”

“Fine,” Har­ry lied.

“We were just talk­ing about the night when Mr. Crouch turned up on the grounds,” said Fudge. “It was you who found him, was it not?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry. Then, feel­ing it was point­less to pre­tend that he hadn't over­heard what they had been say­ing, he added, “I didn't see Madame Maxime any­where, though, and she'd have a job hid­ing, wouldn't she?”

Dum­ble­dore smiled at Har­ry be­hind Fudge's back, his eyes twin­kling.

“Yes, well,” said Fudge, look­ing em­bar­rassed, “we're about to go for a short walk on the grounds, Har­ry, if you'll ex­cuse us…per­haps if you just go back to your class -”

“I want­ed to talk to you. Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry said quick­ly, look­ing at Dum­ble­dore, who gave him a swift, search­ing look.

“Wait here for me, Har­ry,” he said. “Our ex­am­ina­tion of the grounds will not take long.”

They trooped out in si­lence past him and closed the door. Af­ter a minute or so, Har­ry heard the clunks of Moody's wood­en leg grow­ing fainter in the cor­ri­dor be­low. He looked around.

“Hel­lo, Fawkes,” he said.

Fawkes, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore's phoenix, was stand­ing on his gold­en perch be­side the door. The size of a swan, with mag­nif­icent scar­let-​and-​gold plumage, he swished his long tail and blinked be­nign­ly at Har­ry.

Har­ry sat down in a chair in front of Dum­ble­dore's desk. For sev­er­al min­utes, he sat and watched the old head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es snooz­ing in their frames, think­ing about what he had just heard, and run­ning his fin­gers over his scar. It had stopped hurt­ing now.

He felt much calmer, some­how, now that he was in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice, know­ing he would short­ly be telling him about the dream. Har­ry looked up at the walls be­hind the desk. The patched and ragged Sort­ing Hat was stand­ing on a shelf. A glass case next to it held a mag­nif­icent sil­ver sword with large ru­bies set in­to the hilt, which Har­ry rec­og­nized as the one he him­self had pulled out of the Sort­ing Hat in his sec­ond year. The sword had once be­longed to Go­dric Gryffind­or, founder of Har­ry's House. He was gaz­ing at it, re­mem­ber­ing how it had come to his aid when he had thought all hope was lost, when he no­ticed a patch of sil­very light, danc­ing and shim­mer­ing on the glass case. He looked around for the source of the light and saw a sliv­er of sil­ver-​white shin­ing bright­ly from with­in a black cab­inet be­hind him, whose door had not been closed prop­er­ly. Har­ry hes­itat­ed, glanced at Fawkes, then got up, walked across the of­fice, and pulled open the cab­inet door.

A shal­low stone basin lay there, with odd carv­ings around the edge: runes and sym­bols that Har­ry did not rec­og­nize. The sil­very light was com­ing from the basin's con­tents, which were like noth­ing Har­ry had ev­er seen be­fore. He could not tell whether the sub­stance was liq­uid or gas. It was a bright, whitish sil­ver, and it was mov­ing cease­less­ly; the sur­face of it be­came ruf­fled like wa­ter be­neath wind, and then, like clouds, sep­arat­ed and swirled smooth­ly. It looked like light made liq­uid - or like wind made sol­id - Har­ry couldn't make up his mind.

He want­ed to touch it, to find out what it felt like, but near­ly four years' ex­pe­ri­ence of the mag­ical world told him that stick­ing his hand in­to a bowl full of some un­known sub­stance was a very stupid thing to do. He there­fore pulled his wand out of the in­side of his robes, cast a ner­vous look around the of­fice, looked back at the con­tents of the basin, and prod­ded them.

The sur­face of the sil­very stuff in­side the basin be­gan to swirl very fast.

Har­ry bent clos­er, his head right in­side the cab­inet. The sil­very sub­stance had be­come trans­par­ent; it looked like glass. He looked down in­to it ex­pect­ing to see the stone bot­tom of the basin - and saw in­stead an enor­mous room be­low the sur­face of the mys­te­ri­ous sub­stance, a room in­to which he seemed to be look­ing through a cir­cu­lar win­dow in the ceil­ing.

The room was dim­ly lit; he thought it might even be un­der­ground, for there were no win­dows, mere­ly torch­es in brack­ets such as the ones that il­lu­mi­nat­ed the walls of Hog­warts. Low­er­ing his face so that his nose was a mere inch away from the glassy sub­stance, Har­ry saw that rows and rows of witch­es and wiz­ards were seat­ed around ev­ery wall on what seemed to be bench­es ris­ing in lev­els. An emp­ty chair stood in the very cen­ter of the room. There was some­thing about the chair that gave Har­ry an omi­nous feel­ing. Chains en­cir­cled the arms of it, as though its oc­cu­pants were usu­al­ly tied to it.

Where was this place? It sure­ly wasn't Hog­warts; he had nev­er seen a room like that here in the cas­tle. More­over, the crowd in the mys­te­ri­ous room at the bot­tom of the basin was com­prised of adults, and Har­ry knew there were not near­ly that many teach­ers at Hog­warts. They seemed, he thought, to be wait­ing for some­thing; even though he could on­ly see the tops of their hats, all of their faces seemed to be point­ing in one di­rec­tion, and none of them were talk­ing to one an­oth­er.

The basin be­ing cir­cu­lar, and the room he was ob­serv­ing square, Har­ry could not make out what was go­ing on in the cor­ners of it. He leaned even clos­er, tilt­ing his head, try­ing to see…

The tip of his nose touched the strange sub­stance in­to which he was star­ing.

Dum­ble­dore's of­fice gave an almighty lurch - Har­ry was thrown for­ward and pitched head­first in­to the sub­stance in­side the basin -

But his head did not hit the stone bot­tom. He was falling through some­thing icy-​cold and black; it was like be­ing sucked in­to a dark whirlpool -

And sud­den­ly, Har­ry found him­self sit­ting on a bench at the end of the room in­side the basin, a bench raised high above the oth­ers. He looked up at the high stone ceil­ing, ex­pect­ing to see the cir­cu­lar win­dow through which he had just been star­ing, but there was noth­ing there but dark, sol­id stone.

Breath­ing hard and fast. Har­ry looked around him. Not one of the witch­es and wiz­ards in the room (and there were at least two hun­dred of them) was look­ing at him. Not one of them seemed to have no­ticed that a four­teen-​year-​old boy had just dropped from the ceil­ing in­to their midst. Har­ry turned to the wiz­ard next to him on the bench and ut­tered a loud cry of sur­prise that re­ver­ber­at­ed around the silent room.

He was sit­ting right next to Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.

“Pro­fes­sor!” Har­ry said in a kind of stran­gled whis­per. “I'm sor­ry - I didn't mean to - I was just look­ing at that basin in your cab­inet - I - where are we?”

But Dum­ble­dore didn't move or speak. He ig­nored Har­ry com­plete­ly. Like ev­ery oth­er wiz­ard on the bench­es, he was star­ing in­to the far cor­ner of the room, where there was a door.

Har­ry gazed, non­plussed, at Dum­ble­dore, then around at the silent­ly watch­ful crowd, then back at Dum­ble­dore. And then it dawned on him.…

Once be­fore. Har­ry had found him­self some­where that no­body could see or hear him. That time, he had fall­en through a page in an en­chant­ed di­ary, right in­to some­body else's mem­ory…and un­less he was very much mis­tak­en, some­thing of the sort had hap­pened again…

Har­ry raised his right hand, hes­itat­ed, and then waved it en­er­get­ical­ly in from of Dum­ble­dore's face. Dum­ble­dore did not blink, look around at Har­ry, or in­deed move at all. And that, in Har­ry's opin­ion, set­tled the mat­ter. Dum­ble­dore wouldn't ig­nore him like that. He was in­side a mem­ory, and this was not the present-​day Dum­ble­dore. Yet it couldn't be that long ago…the Dum­ble­dore sit­ting next to him now was sil­ver-​haired, just like the present-​day Dum­ble­dore. But what was this place? What were all these wiz­ards wait­ing for?

Har­ry looked around more care­ful­ly. The room, as he had sus­pect­ed when ob­serv­ing it from above, was al­most cer­tain­ly un­der­ground - more of a dun­geon than a room, he thought. There was a bleak and for­bid­ding air about the place; there were no pic­tures on the walls, no dec­ora­tions at all; just these ser­ried rows of bench­es, ris­ing in lev­els all around the room, all po­si­tioned so that they had a clear view of that chair with the chains on its arms.

Be­fore Har­ry could reach any con­clu­sions about the place in which they were, he heard foot­steps. The door in the cor­ner of the dun­geon opened and three peo­ple en­tered - or at least one man, flanked by two de­men­tors.

Har­ry's in­sides went cold. The de­men­tors - tall, hood­ed crea­tures whose faces were con­cealed - were glid­ing slow­ly to­ward the chair in the cen­ter of the room, each grasp­ing one of the man's arms with their dead and rot­ten-​look­ing hands. The man be­tween them looked as though he was about to faint, and Har­ry couldn't blame him…he knew the de­men­tors could not touch him in­side a mem­ory, but he re­mem­bered their pow­er on­ly too well. The watch­ing crowd re­coiled slight­ly as the de­men­tors placed the man in the chained chair and glid­ed back out of the room. The door swung shut be­hind them.

Har­ry looked down at the man now sit­ting in the chair and saw that it was Karkaroff.

Un­like Dum­ble­dore, Karkaroff looked much younger; his hair and goa­tee were black. He was not dressed in sleek furs, but in thin and ragged robes. He was shak­ing. Even as Har­ry watched, the chains on the arms of the chair glowed sud­den­ly gold and snaked their way up Karkaroff's arms, bind­ing him there.

“Ig­or Karkaroff,” said a curt voice to Har­ry's left. Har­ry looked around and saw Mr. Crouch stand­ing up in the mid­dle of the bench be­side him. Crouch's hair was dark, his face was much less lined, he looked fit and alert. “You have been brought from Azk­aban to present ev­idence to the Min­istry of Mag­ic. You have giv­en us to un­der­stand that you have im­por­tant in­for­ma­tion for us.”

Karkaroff straight­ened him­self as best he could, tight­ly bound to the chair.

“I have, sir,” he said, and al­though his voice was very scared, Har­ry could still hear the fa­mil­iar unc­tu­ous note in it. “I wish to be of use to the Min­istry. I wish to help. I - I know that the Min­istry is try­ing to - to round up the last of the Dark Lords sup­port­ers. I am ea­ger to as­sist in any way I can.…”

There was a mur­mur around the bench­es. Some of the wiz­ards and witch­es were sur­vey­ing Karkaroff with in­ter­est, oth­ers with pro­nounced mis­trust. Then Har­ry heard, quite dis­tinct­ly, from Dum­ble­dores oth­er side, a fa­mil­iar, growl­ing voice say­ing, “Filth.”

Har­ry leaned for­ward so that he could see past Dum­ble­dore. Mad-​Eye Moody was sit­ting there - ex­cept that there was a very no­tice­able dif­fer­ence in his ap­pear­ance. He did not have his mag­ical eye, but two nor­mal ones. Both were look­ing down up­on Karkaroff, and both were nar­rowed in in­tense dis­like.

“Crouch is go­ing to let him out,” Moody breathed qui­et­ly to Dum­ble­dore. “He's done a deal with him. Took me six months to track him down, and Crouch is go­ing to let him go if he's got enough new names. Let's hear his in­for­ma­tion, I say, and throw him straight back to the de­men­tors.”

Dum­ble­dore made a small noise of dis­sent through his long, crooked nose.

“Ah, I was for­get­ting…you don't like the de­men­tors, do you, Al­bus?” said Moody with a sar­don­ic smile.

“No,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, “I'm afraid I don't. I have long felt the Min­istry is wrong to al­ly it­self with such crea­tures.”

“But for filth like this…” Moody said soft­ly.

“You say you have names for us, Karkaroff,” said Mr. Crouch. “Let us hear them, please.”

“You must un­der­stand,” said Karkaroff hur­ried­ly, “that He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named op­er­at­ed al­ways in the great­est se­cre­cy.…He pre­ferred that we - I mean to say, his sup­port­ers - and I re­gret now, very deeply, that I ev­er count­ed my­self among them -”

“Get on with it,” sneered Moody.

“- we nev­er knew the names of ev­ery one of our fel­lows - He alone knew ex­act­ly who we all were -”

“Which was a wise move, wasn't it, as it pre­vent­ed some­one like you, Karkaroff, from turn­ing all of them in,” mut­tered Moody.

“Yet you say you have some names for us?” said Mr. Crouch.

“I - I do,” said Karkaroff breath­less­ly. “And these were im­por­tant sup­port­ers, mark you. Peo­ple I saw with my own eyes do­ing his bid­ding. I give this in­for­ma­tion as a sign that I ful­ly and to­tal­ly re­nounce him, and am filled with a re­morse so deep I can bare­ly -”

“These names are?” said Mr. Crouch sharply.

Karkaroff drew a deep breath.

“There was An­tonin Dolo­hov,” he said. “I - I saw him tor­ture count­less Mug­gles and - and non-​sup­port­ers of the Dark Lord.”

“And helped him do it,” mur­mured Moody.

“We have al­ready ap­pre­hend­ed Dolo­hov,” said Crouch. “He was caught short­ly af­ter your­self.”

“In­deed?” said Karkaroff, his eyes widen­ing. “I - I am de­light­ed to hear it!”

But he didn't look it. Har­ry could tell that this news had come as a re­al blow to him. One of his names was worth­less.

“Any oth­ers?” said Crouch cold­ly.

“Why, yes…there was Rosier,” said Karkaroff hur­ried­ly. “Evan Rosier.”

“Rosier is dead,” said Crouch. “He was caught short­ly af­ter you were too. He pre­ferred to fight rather than come qui­et­ly and was killed in the strug­gle.”

“Took a bit of me with him, though,” whis­pered Moody to Har­ry's right. Har­ry looked around at him once more, and saw him in­di­cat­ing the large chunk out of his nose to Dum­ble­dore.

“No - no more than Rosier de­served!” said Karkaroff, a re­al note of pan­ic in his voice now. Har­ry could see that he was start­ing to wor­ry that none of his in­for­ma­tion would be of any use to the Min­istry. Karkaroff's eyes dart­ed to­ward the door in the cor­ner, be­hind which the de­men­tors un­doubt­ed­ly still stood, wait­ing.

“Any more?” said Crouch.

“Yes!” said Karkaroff. “There was Travers - he helped mur­der the McK­in­nons! Mul­ciber - he spe­cial­ized in the Im­perius Curse, forced count­less peo­ple to do hor­rif­ic things! Rook­wood, who was a spy, and passed He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named use­ful in­for­ma­tion from in­side the Min­istry it­self!”

Har­ry could tell that, this time, Karkaroff had struck gold. The watch­ing crowd was all mur­mur­ing to­geth­er.

“Rook­wood?” said Mr. Crouch, nod­ding to a witch sit­ting in front of him, who be­gan scrib­bling up­on her piece of parch­ment. “Au­gus­tus Rook­wood of the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies?”

“The very same,” said Karkaroff ea­ger­ly. “I be­lieve he used a net­work of well-​placed wiz­ards, both in­side the Min­istry and out, to col­lect in­for­ma­tion -”

“But Travers and Mul­ciber we have,” said Mr. Crouch. “Very well, Karkaroff, if that is all, you will be re­turned to Azk­aban while we de­cide -”

“Not yet!” cried Karkaroff, look­ing quite des­per­ate. “Wait, I have more!”

Har­ry could see him sweat­ing in the torch­light, his white skin con­trast­ing strong­ly with the black of his hair and beard.

“Snape!” he shout­ed. “Severus Snape!”

“Snape has been cleared by this coun­cil,” said Crouch dis­dain­ful­ly. “He has been vouched for by Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.”

“No!” shout­ed Karkaroff, strain­ing at the chains that bound him to the chair. “I as­sure you! Severus Snape is a Death Eater!”

Dum­ble­dore had got­ten to his feet.

“I have giv­en ev­idence al­ready on this mat­ter,” he said calm­ly. “Severus Snape was in­deed a Death Eater. How­ev­er, he re­joined our side be­fore Lord Volde­mort's down­fall and turned spy for us, at great per­son­al risk. He is now no more a Death Eater than I am.”

Har­ry turned to look at Mad-​Eye Moody. He was wear­ing a look of deep skep­ti­cism be­hind Dum­ble­dore's back.

“Very well, Karkaroff,” Crouch said cold­ly, “you have been of as­sis­tance. I shall re­view your case. You will re­turn to Azk­aban in the mean­time.…”

Mr. Crouch's voice fad­ed. Har­ry looked around; the dun­geon was dis­solv­ing as though it were made of smoke; ev­ery­thing was fad­ing; he could see on­ly his own body - all else was swirling dark­ness.…

And then, the dun­geon re­turned. Har­ry was sit­ting in a dif­fer­ent seat, still on the high­est bench, but now to the left side of Mr. Crouch. The at­mo­sphere seemed quite dif­fer­ent: re­laxed, even cheer­ful. The witch­es and wiz­ards all around the walls were talk­ing to one an­oth­er, al­most as though they were at some sort of sport­ing event. Har­ry no­ticed a witch halfway up the rows of bench­es op­po­site. She had short blonde hair, was wear­ing ma­gen­ta robes, and was suck­ing the end of an acid-​green quill. It was, un­mis­tak­ably, a younger Ri­ta Skeeter. Har­ry looked around; Dum­ble­dore was sit­ting be­side him again, wear­ing dif­fer­ent robes. Mr. Crouch looked more tired and some­how fiercer, gaunter.…Har­ry un­der­stood. It was a dif­fer­ent mem­ory, a dif­fer­ent day…a dif­fer­ent tri­al.

The door in the cor­ner opened, and Lu­do Bag­man walked in­to the room.

This was not, how­ev­er, a Lu­do Bag­man gone to seed, but a Lu­do Bag­man who was clear­ly at the height of his Quid­ditch-​play­ing fit­ness. His nose wasn't bro­ken now; he was tall and lean and mus­cu­lar. Bag­man looked ner­vous as he sat down in the chained chair, but it did not bind him there as it had bound Karkaroff, and Bag­man, per­haps tak­ing heart from this, glanced around at the watch­ing crowd, waved at a cou­ple of them, and man­aged a small smile.

“Lu­do Bag­man, you have been brought here in front of the Coun­cil of Mag­ical Law to an­swer charges re­lat­ing to the ac­tiv­ities of the Death Eaters,” said Mr. Crouch. “We have heard the ev­idence against you, and are about to reach our ver­dict. Do you have any­thing to add to your tes­ti­mo­ny be­fore we pro­nounce judg­ment?”

Har­ry couldn't be­lieve his ears. Lu­do Bag­man, a Death Eater?

“On­ly,” said Bag­man, smil­ing awk­ward­ly, “well - I know I've been a bit of an id­iot -”

One or two wiz­ards and witch­es in the sur­round­ing seats smiled in­dul­gent­ly. Mr. Crouch did not ap­pear to share their feel­ings. He was star­ing down at Lu­do Bag­man with an ex­pres­sion of the ut­most sever­ity and dis­like.

“You nev­er spoke a truer word, boy,” some­one mut­tered dry­ly to Dum­ble­dore be­hind Har­ry. He looked around and saw Moody sit­ting there again. “If I didn't know he'd al­ways been dim, I'd have said some of those Bludgers had per­ma­nent­ly af­fect­ed his brain.…”

“Lu­dovic Bag­man, you were caught pass­ing in­for­ma­tion to Lord Volde­mort's sup­port­ers,” said Mr. Crouch. “For this, I sug­gest a term of im­pris­on­ment in Azk­aban last­ing no less than -”

But there was an an­gry out­cry from the sur­round­ing bench­es. Sev­er­al of the witch­es and wiz­ards around the walls stood up, shak­ing their heads, and even their fists, at Mr. Crouch.

“But I've told you, I had no idea!” Bag­man called earnest­ly over the crowd's bab­ble, his round blue eyes widen­ing. “None at all! Old Rook­wood was a friend of my dad's…nev­er crossed my mind he was in with You-​Know-​Who! I thought I was col­lect­ing in­for­ma­tion for our side! And Rook­wood kept talk­ing about get­ting me a job in the Min­istry lat­er on…once my Quid­ditch days are over, you know…I mean, I can't keep get­ting hit by Bludgers for the rest of my life, can I?”

There were tit­ters from the crowd.

“It will be put to the vote,” said Mr. Crouch cold­ly. He turned to the right-​hand side of the dun­geon. “The ju­ry will please raise their hands…those in fa­vor of im­pris­on­ment…”

Har­ry looked to­ward the right-​hand side of the dun­geon. Not one per­son raised their hand. Many of the witch­es and wiz­ards around the walls be­gan to clap. One of the witch­es on the ju­ry stood up.

“Yes?” barked Crouch.

“We'd just like to con­grat­ulate Mr. Bag­man on his splen­did per­for­mance for Eng­land in the Quid­ditch match against Turkey last Sat­ur­day,” the witch said breath­less­ly.

Mr. Crouch looked fu­ri­ous. The dun­geon was ring­ing with ap­plause now. Bag­man got to his feet and bowed, beam­ing.

“De­spi­ca­ble,” Mr. Crouch spat at Dum­ble­dore, sit­ting down as Bag­man walked out of the dun­geon. “Rook­wood get him a job in­deed.…The day Lu­do Bag­man joins us will be a sad day in­deed for the Min­istry.…”

And the dun­geon dis­solved again. When it had re­turned, Har­ry looked around. He and Dum­ble­dore were still sit­ting be­side Mr. Crouch, but the at­mo­sphere could not have been more dif­fer­ent. There was to­tal si­lence, bro­ken on­ly by the dry sobs of a frail, wispy-​look­ing witch in the seat next to Mr. Crouch. She was clutch­ing a hand­ker­chief to her mouth with trem­bling hands.

Har­ry looked up at Crouch and saw that he looked gaunter and gray­er than ev­er be­fore. A nerve was twitch­ing in his tem­ple.

“Bring them in,” he said, and his voice echoed through the silent dun­geon.

The door in the cor­ner opened yet again. Six de­men­tors en­tered this time, flank­ing a group of four peo­ple. Har­ry saw the peo­ple in the crowd turn to look up at Mr. Crouch. A few of them whis­pered to one an­oth­er.

The de­men­tors placed each of the four peo­ple in the four chairs with chained arms that now stood on the dun­geon floor. There was a thick­set man who stared blankly up at Crouch; a thin­ner and more ner­vous-​look­ing man, whose eyes were dart­ing around the crowd; a wom­an with thick, shin­ing dark hair and heav­ily hood­ed eyes, who was sit­ting in the chained chair as though it were a throne; and a boy in his late teens, who looked noth­ing short of pet­ri­fied. He was shiv­er­ing, his straw-​col­ored hair all over his face, his freck­led skin milk-​white. The wispy lit­tle witch be­side Crouch be­gan to rock back­ward and for­ward in her seat, whim­per­ing in­to her hand­ker­chief.

Crouch stood up. He looked down up­on the four in front of him, and there was pure ha­tred in his face.

“You have been brought here be­fore the Coun­cil of Mag­ical Law,” he said clear­ly, “so that we may pass judg­ment on you, for a crime so heinous -”

“Fa­ther,” said the boy with the straw-​col­ored hair. “Fa­ther…please…”

“- that we have rarely heard the like of it with­in this court,” said Crouch, speak­ing more loud­ly, drown­ing out his son's voice.

“We have heard the ev­idence against you. The four of you stand ac­cused of cap­tur­ing an Au­ror - Frank Long­bot­tom - and sub­ject­ing him to the Cru­cia­tus Curse, be­liev­ing him to have knowl­edge of the present where­abouts of your ex­iled mas­ter, He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named -”

“Fa­ther, I didn't!” shrieked the boy in chains be­low. “I didn't, I swear it. Fa­ther, don't send me back to the de­men­tors -”

“You are fur­ther ac­cused,” bel­lowed Mr. Crouch, “of us­ing the Cru­cia­tus Curse on Frank Long­bot­tom's wife, when he would not give you in­for­ma­tion. You planned to re­store He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named to pow­er, and to re­sume the lives of vi­olence you pre­sum­ably led while he was strong. I now ask the ju­ry -”

“Moth­er!” screamed the boy be­low, and the wispy lit­tle witch be­side Crouch be­gan to sob, rock­ing back­ward and for­ward. “Moth­er, stop him. Moth­er, I didn't do it, it wasn't me!”

“I now ask the ju­ry,” shout­ed Mr. Crouch, “to raise their hands if they be­lieve, as I do, that these crimes de­serve a life sen­tence in Azk­aban!”

In uni­son, the witch­es and wiz­ards along the right-​hand side of the dun­geon raised their hands. The crowd around the walls be­gan to clap as it had for Bag­man, their faces full of sav­age tri­umph. The boy be­gan to scream.

“No! Moth­er, no! I didn't do it, I didn't do it, I didn't know! Don't send me there, don't let him!”

The de­men­tors were glid­ing back in­to the room. The boys' three com­pan­ions rose qui­et­ly from their seats; the wom­an with the heavy-​lid­ded eyes looked up at Crouch and called, “The Dark Lord will rise again, Crouch! Throw us in­to Azk­aban; we will wait! He will rise again and will come for us, he will re­ward us be­yond any of his oth­er sup­port­ers! We alone were faith­ful! We alone tried to find him!”

But the boy was try­ing to fight off the de­men­tors, even though Har­ry could see their cold, drain­ing pow­er start­ing to af­fect him. The crowd was jeer­ing, some of them on their feet, as the wom­an swept out of the dun­geon, and the boy con­tin­ued to strug­gle.

“I'm your son!” he screamed up at Crouch. “I'm your son!”

“You are no son of mine!” bel­lowed Mr. Crouch, his eyes bulging sud­den­ly. “I have no son!”

The wispy witch be­side him gave a great gasp and slumped in her seat. She had faint­ed. Crouch ap­peared not to have no­ticed.

“Take them away!” Crouch roared at the de­men­tors, spit fly­ing from his mouth. “Take them away, and may they rot there!”

“Fa­ther! Fa­ther, I wasn't in­volved! No! No! Fa­ther, please!”

“I think. Har­ry, it is time to re­turn to my of­fice,” said a qui­et voice in Har­ry's ear.

Har­ry start­ed. He looked around. Then he looked on his oth­er side.

There was an Al­bus Dum­ble­dore sit­ting on his right, watch­ing Crouch's son be­ing dragged away by the de­men­tors - and there was an Al­bus Dum­ble­dore on his left, look­ing right at him.

“Come,” said the Dum­ble­dore on his left, and he put his hand un­der Har­ry's el­bow. Har­ry felt him­self ris­ing in­to the air; the dun­geon dis­solved around him; for a mo­ment, all was black­ness, and then he felt as though he had done a slow-​mo­tion som­er­sault, sud­den­ly land­ing flat on his feet, in what seemed like the daz­zling light of Dum­ble­dore's sun­lit of­fice. The stone basin was shim­mer­ing in the cab­inet in front of him, and Al­bus Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing be­side him.

“Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry gasped, “I know I shouldn't've - I didn't mean - the cab­inet door was sort of open and -”

“I quite un­der­stand,” said Dum­ble­dore. He lift­ed the basin, car­ried it over to his desk, placed it up­on the pol­ished top, and sat down in the chair be­hind it. He mo­tioned for Har­ry to sit down op­po­site him.

Har­ry did so, star­ing at the stone basin. The con­tents had re­turned to their orig­inal, sil­very-​white state, swirling and rip­pling be­neath his gaze.

“What is it?” Har­ry asked shak­ily.

“This? It is called a Pen­sieve,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I some­times find, and I am sure you know the feel­ing, that I sim­ply have too many thoughts and mem­ories crammed in­to my mind.”

“Er,” said Har­ry, who couldn't truth­ful­ly say that he had ev­er felt any­thing of the sort.

“At these times,” said Dum­ble­dore, in­di­cat­ing the stone basin, “I use the Pen­sieve. One sim­ply siphons the ex­cess thoughts from one's mind, pours them in­to the basin, and ex­am­ines them at one's leisure. It be­comes eas­ier to spot pat­terns and links, you un­der­stand, when they are in this form.”

“You mean…that stuff's your thoughts?” Har­ry said, star­ing at the swirling white sub­stance in the basin.

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Let me show you.”

Dum­ble­dore drew his wand out of the in­side of his robes and placed the tip in­to his own sil­very hair, near his tem­ple. When he took the wand away, hair seemed to be cling­ing to it - but then Har­ry saw that it was in fact a glis­ten­ing strand of the same strange sil­very-​white sub­stance that filled the Pen­sieve. Dum­ble­dore added this fresh thought to the basin, and Har­ry, as­ton­ished, saw his own face swim­ming around the sur­face of the bowl. Dum­ble­dore placed his long hands on ei­ther side of the Pen­sieve and swirled it, rather as a gold prospec­tor would pan for frag­ments of gold.…and Har­ry saw his own face change smooth­ly in­to Snape's, who opened his mouth and spoke to the ceil­ing, his voice echo­ing slight­ly.

“It's com­ing back…Karkaroff's too…stronger and clear­er than ev­er…”

“A con­nec­tion I could have made with­out as­sis­tance,” Dum­ble­dore sighed, “but nev­er mind.” He peered over the top of his half-​moon spec­ta­cles at Har­ry, who was gap­ing at Snape's face, which was con­tin­uing to swirl around the bowl. “I was us­ing the Pen­sieve when Mr. Fudge ar­rived for our meet­ing and put it away rather hasti­ly. Un­doubt­ed­ly I did not fas­ten the cab­inet door prop­er­ly. Nat­ural­ly, it would have at­tract­ed your at­ten­tion.”

“I'm sor­ry,” Har­ry mum­bled.

Dum­ble­dore shook his head. “Cu­rios­ity is not a sin,” he said. “But we should ex­er­cise cau­tion with our cu­rios­ity…yes, in­deed…”

Frown­ing slight­ly, he prod­ded the thoughts with­in the basin with the tip of his wand. In­stant­ly, a fig­ure rose out of it, a plump, scowl­ing girl of about six­teen, who be­gan to re­volve slow­ly, with her feet still in the basin. She took no no­tice what­so­ev­er of Har­ry or Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore. When she spoke, her voice echoed as Snape's had done, as though it were com­ing from the depths of the stone basin. “He put a hex on me, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, and I was on­ly teas­ing him, sir, I on­ly said I'd seen him kiss­ing Flo­rence be­hind the green­hous­es last Thurs­day.…”

“But why. Bertha,” said Dum­ble­dore sad­ly, look­ing up at the now silent­ly re­volv­ing girl, “why did you have to fol­low him in the first place?”

“Bertha?” Har­ry whis­pered, look­ing up at her. “Is that - was that Bertha Jorkins?”

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore, prod­ding the thoughts in the basin again; Bertha sank back in­to them, and they be­came sil­very and opaque once more. “That was Bertha as I re­mem­ber her at school.”

The sil­very light from the Pen­sieve il­lu­mi­nat­ed Dum­ble­dore's face, and it struck Har­ry sud­den­ly how very old he was look­ing. He knew, of course, that Dum­ble­dore was get­ting on in years, but some­how he nev­er re­al­ly thought of Dum­ble­dore as an old man.

“So, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “Be­fore you got lost in my thoughts, you want­ed to tell me some­thing.”

“Yes,” said Har­ry. “Pro­fes­sor - I was in Div­ina­tion just now, and - er - I fell asleep.”

He hes­itat­ed here, won­der­ing if a rep­ri­mand was com­ing, but Dum­ble­dore mere­ly said, “Quite un­der­stand­able. Con­tin­ue.”

“Well, I had a dream,” said Har­ry. “A dream about Lord Volde­mort. He was tor­tur­ing Worm­tail…you know who Worm­tail-”

“I do know,” said Dum­ble­dore prompt­ly. “Please con­tin­ue.”

“Volde­mort got a let­ter from an owl. He said some­thing like, Worm­tail's blun­der had been re­paired. He said some­one was dead. Then he said, Worm­tail wouldn't be fed to the snake - there was a snake be­side his chair. He said - he said he'd be feed­ing me to it, in­stead. Then he did the Cru­cia­tus Curse on Worm­tail - and my scar hurt,” Har­ry said. “It woke me up, it hurt so bad­ly.”

Dum­ble­dore mere­ly looked at him.

“Er - that's all,” said Har­ry.

“I see,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “I see. Now, has your scar hurt at any oth­er time this year, ex­cept­ing the time it woke you up over the sum­mer?”

“No, I - how did you know it woke me up over the sum­mer?” said Har­ry, as­ton­ished.

“You are not Sir­ius's on­ly cor­re­spon­dent,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I have al­so been in con­tact with him ev­er since he left Hog­warts last year. It was I who sug­gest­ed the moun­tain­side cave as the safest place for him to stay.”

Dum­ble­dore got up and be­gan walk­ing up and down be­hind his desk. Ev­ery now and then, he placed his wand tip to his tem­ple, re­moved an­oth­er shin­ing sil­ver thought, and added it to the Pen­sieve. The thoughts in­side be­gan to swirl so fast that Har­ry couldn't make out any­thing clear­ly: It was mere­ly a blur of col­or.

“Pro­fes­sor?” he said qui­et­ly, af­ter a cou­ple of min­utes.

Dum­ble­dore stopped pac­ing and looked at Har­ry.

“My apolo­gies,” he said qui­et­ly. He sat back down at his desk.

“D'you - d'you know why my scar's hurt­ing me?”

Dum­ble­dore looked very in­tent­ly at Har­ry for a mo­ment, and then said, “I have a the­ory, no more than that.…It is my be­lief that your scar hurts both when Lord Volde­mort is near you, and when he is feel­ing a par­tic­ular­ly strong surge of ha­tred.”

“But…why?”

“Be­cause you and he are con­nect­ed by the curse that failed,” said Dum­ble­dore. “That is no or­di­nary scar.”

“So you think…that dream…did it re­al­ly hap­pen?”

“It is pos­si­ble,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I would say - prob­able. Har­ry - did you see Volde­mort?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “Just the back of his chair. But - there wouldn't have been any­thing to see, would there? I mean, he hasn't got a body, has he? But…but then how could he have held the wand?” Har­ry said slow­ly.

“How in­deed?” mut­tered Dum­ble­dore. “How in­deed…”

Nei­ther Dum­ble­dore nor Har­ry spoke for a while. Dum­ble­dore was gaz­ing across the room, and, ev­ery now and then, plac­ing his wand tip to his tem­ple and adding an­oth­er shin­ing sil­ver thought to the seething mass with­in the Pen­sieve.

“Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry said at last, “do you think he's get­ting stronger?”

“Volde­mort?” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing at Har­ry over the Pen­sieve. It was the char­ac­ter­is­tic, pierc­ing look Dum­ble­dore had giv­en him on oth­er oc­ca­sions, and al­ways made Har­ry feel as though Dum­ble­dore were see­ing right through him in a way that even Moody's mag­ical eye could not. “Once again. Har­ry, I can on­ly give you my sus­pi­cions.”

Dum­ble­dore sighed again, and he looked old­er, and wea­ri­er, than ev­er.

“The years of Volde­mort's as­cent to pow­er,” he said, “were marked with dis­ap­pear­ances. Bertha Jorkins has van­ished with­out a trace in the place where Volde­mort was cer­tain­ly known to be last. Mr. Crouch too has dis­ap­peared…with­in these very grounds. And there was a third dis­ap­pear­ance, one which the Min­istry, I re­gret to say, do not con­sid­er of any im­por­tance, for it con­cerns a Mug­gle. His name was Frank Bryce, he lived in the vil­lage where Volde­mort's fa­ther grew up, and he has not been seen since last Au­gust. You see, I read the Mug­gle news­pa­pers, un­like most of my Min­istry friends.”

Dum­ble­dore looked very se­ri­ous­ly at Har­ry.

“These dis­ap­pear­ances seem to me to be linked. The Min­istry dis­agrees - as you may have heard, while wait­ing out­side my of­fice.”

Har­ry nod­ded. Si­lence fell be­tween them again, Dum­ble­dore ex­tract­ing thoughts ev­ery now and then. Har­ry felt as though he ought to go, but his cu­rios­ity held him in his chair.

“Pro­fes­sor?” he said again.

“Yes, Har­ry?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Er…could I ask you about…that court thing I was in…in the Pen­sieve?”

“You could,” said Dum­ble­dore heav­ily. “I at­tend­ed it many times, but some tri­als come back to me more clear­ly than oth­ers…par­tic­ular­ly now.…”

“You know - you know the tri­al you found me in? The one with Crouch's son? Well.…were they talk­ing about Neville's par­ents?”

Dum­ble­dore gave Har­ry a very sharp look. “ Has Neville nev­er told you why he has been brought up by his grand­moth­er?” he said.

Har­ry shook his head, won­der­ing, as he did so, how he could have failed to ask Neville this, in al­most four years of know­ing him.

“Yes, they were talk­ing about Neville's par­ents,” said Dum­ble­dore. “His fa­ther, Frank, was an Au­ror just like Pro­fes­sor Moody. He and his wife were tor­tured for in­for­ma­tion about Volde­mort's where­abouts af­ter he lost his pow­ers, as you heard.”

“So they're dead?” said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

“No,” said Dum­ble­dore, his voice full of a bit­ter­ness Har­ry had nev­er heard there be­fore. “They are in­sane. They are both in St. Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­juries. I be­lieve Neville vis­its them, with his grand­moth­er, dur­ing the hol­idays. They do not rec­og­nize him.”

Har­ry sat there, hor­ror-​struck. He had nev­er known…nev­er, in four years, both­ered to find out…

“The Long­bot­toms were very pop­ular,” said Dum­ble­dore. “The at­tacks on them came af­ter Volde­mort's fall from pow­er, just when ev­ery­one thought they were safe. Those at­tacks caused a wave of fury such as I have nev­er known. The Min­istry was un­der great pres­sure to catch those who had done it. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, the Long­bot­toms' ev­idence was - giv­en their con­di­tion - none too re­li­able.”

“Then Mr. Crouch's son might not have been in­volved?” said Har­ry slow­ly.

Dum­ble­dore shook his head.

“As to that, I have no idea.”

Har­ry sat in si­lence once more, watch­ing the con­tents of the Pen­sieve swirl. There were two more ques­tions he was burn­ing to ask…but they con­cerned the guilt of liv­ing peo­ple.…

“Er,” he said, “Mr. Bag­man.…”

“…has nev­er been ac­cused of any Dark ac­tiv­ity since,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly.

“Right,” said Har­ry hasti­ly, star­ing at the con­tents of the Pen­sieve again, which were swirling more slow­ly now that Dum­ble­dore had stopped adding thoughts. “And…er…”

But the Pen­sieve seemed to be ask­ing his ques­tion for him.

Snape's face was swim­ming on the sur­face again. Dum­ble­dore glanced down in­to it, and then up at Har­ry.

“No more has Pro­fes­sor Snape,” he said.

Har­ry looked in­to Dum­ble­dore's light blue eyes, and the thing he re­al­ly want­ed to know spilled out of his mouth be­fore he could stop it.

“What made you think he'd re­al­ly stopped sup­port­ing Volde­mort, Pro­fes­sor?”

Dum­ble­dore held Har­ry's gaze for a few sec­onds, and then said, “That, Har­ry, is a mat­ter be­tween Pro­fes­sor Snape and my­self.”

Har­ry knew that the in­ter­view was over; Dum­ble­dore did not look an­gry, yet there was a fi­nal­ity in his tone that told Har­ry it was time to go. He stood up, and so did Dum­ble­dore.

“Har­ry,” he said as Har­ry reached the door. “Please do not speak about Neville's par­ents to any­body else. He has the right to let peo­ple know, when he is ready.”

“Yes, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry, turn­ing to go.

“And-”

Har­ry looked back. Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing over the Pen­sieve, his face lit from be­neath by its sil­very spots of light, look­ing old­er than ev­er. He stared at Har­ry for a mo­ment, and then said, “Good luck with the third task.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE


THE THIRD TASK



“ D um­ble­dore reck­ons You-​Know-​Who's get­ting stronger again as well?” Ron whis­pered.

Ev­ery­thing Har­ry had seen in the Pen­sieve, near­ly ev­ery­thing Dum­ble­dore had told and shown him af­ter­ward, he had now shared with Ron and Hermione - and, of course, with Sir­ius, to whom Har­ry had sent an owl the mo­ment he had left Dum­ble­dore's of­fice. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sat up late in the com­mon room once again that night, talk­ing it all over un­til Har­ry's mind was reel­ing, un­til he un­der­stood what Dum­ble­dore had meant about a head be­com­ing so full of thoughts that it would have been a re­lief to siphon them off.

Ron stared in­to the com­mon room fire. Har­ry thought he saw Ron shiv­er slight­ly, even though the evening was warm.

“And he trusts Snape?” Ron said. “He re­al­ly trusts Snape, even though he knows he was a Death Eater?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry.

Hermione had not spo­ken for ten min­utes. She was sit­ting with her fore­head in her hands, star­ing at her knees. Har­ry thought she too looked as though she could have done with a Pen­sieve.

“Ri­ta Skeeter,” she mut­tered fi­nal­ly.

“How can you be wor­ry­ing about her now?” said Ron, in ut­ter dis­be­lief.

“I'm not wor­ry­ing about her,” Hermione said to her knees. “I'm just think­ing…re­mem­ber what she said to me in the Three Broom­sticks? 'I know things about Lu­do Bag­man that would make your hair curl. ' This is what she meant, isn't it? She re­port­ed his tri­al, she knew he'd passed in­for­ma­tion to the Death Eaters. And Winky too, re­mem­ber…'Lu­do Bag­man's a bad wiz­ard.' Mr. Crouch would have been fu­ri­ous he got off, he would have talked about it at home.”

“Yeah, but Bag­man didn't pass in­for­ma­tion on pur­pose, did he?”

Hermione shrugged.

“And Fudge reck­ons Madame Maxime at­tacked Crouch?” Ron said, turn­ing back to Har­ry.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “but he's on­ly say­ing that be­cause Crouch dis­ap­peared near the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage.”

“We nev­er thought of her, did we?” said Ron slow­ly. “Mind you, she's def­inite­ly got gi­ant blood, and she doesn't want to ad­mit it-”

“Of course she doesn't,” said Hermione sharply, look­ing up. “Look what hap­pened to Ha­grid when Ri­ta found out about his moth­er. Look at Fudge, jump­ing to con­clu­sions about her, just be­cause she's part gi­ant. Who needs that sort of prej­udice? I'd prob­ably say I had big bones if I knew that's what I'd get for telling the truth.”

Hermione looked at her watch. “We haven't done any prac­tic­ing!” she said, look­ing shocked. “We were go­ing to do the Im­ped­iment Curse! We'll have to re­al­ly get down to it to­mor­row! Come on. Har­ry, you need to get some sleep.”

Har­ry and Ron went slow­ly up­stairs to their dor­mi­to­ry. As Har­ry pulled on his pa­ja­mas, he looked over at Neville's bed. True to his word to Dum­ble­dore, he had not told Ron and Hermione about Neville's par­ents. As Har­ry took off his glass­es and climbed in­to his four-​poster, he imag­ined how it must feel to have par­ents still liv­ing but un­able to rec­og­nize you. He of­ten got sym­pa­thy from strangers for be­ing an or­phan, but as he lis­tened to Neville's snores, he thought that Neville de­served it more than he did. Ly­ing in the dark­ness, Har­ry felt a rush of anger and hate to­ward the peo­ple who had tor­tured Mr. and Mrs. Long­bot­tom.…He re­mem­bered the jeers of the crowd as Crouch's son and his com­pan­ions had been dragged from the court by the de­men­tors.…He un­der­stood how they had felt.…Then he re­mem­bered the milk-​white face of the scream­ing boy and re­al­ized with a jolt that he had died a year lat­er.…

It was Volde­mort, Har­ry thought, star­ing up at the canopy of his bed in the dark­ness, it all came back to Volde­mort.…He was the one who had torn these fam­ilies apart, who had ru­ined all these lives.…

Ron and Hermione were sup­posed to be study­ing for their ex­ams, which would fin­ish on the day of the third task, but they were putting most of their ef­forts in­to help­ing Har­ry pre­pare.

“Don't wor­ry about it,” Hermione said short­ly when Har­ry point­ed this out to them and said he didn't mind prac­tic­ing on his own for a while, “at least we'll get top marks in De­fense Against the Dark Arts. We'd nev­er have found out about all these hex­es in class.”

“Good train­ing for when we're all Au­rors,” said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, at­tempt­ing the Im­ped­iment Curse on a wasp that had buzzed in­to the room and mak­ing it stop dead in midair.

The mood in the cas­tle as they en­tered June be­came ex­cit­ed and tense again. Ev­ery­one was look­ing for­ward to the third task, which would take place a week be­fore the end of term. Har­ry was prac­tic­ing hex­es at ev­ery avail­able mo­ment. He felt more con­fi­dent about this task than ei­ther of the oth­ers. Dif­fi­cult and dan­ger­ous though it would un­doubt­ed­ly be, Moody was right: Har­ry had man­aged to find his way past mon­strous crea­tures and en­chant­ed bar­ri­ers be­fore now, and this time he had some no­tice, some chance to pre­pare him­self for what lay ahead.

Tired of walk­ing in on Har­ry, Hermione, and Ron all over the school. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had giv­en them per­mis­sion to use the emp­ty Trans­fig­ura­tion class­room at lunchtimes. Har­ry had soon mas­tered the Im­ped­iment Curse, a spell to slow down and ob­struct at­tack­ers; the Re­duc­tor Curse, which would en­able him to blast sol­id ob­jects out of his way; and the Four-​Point Spell, a use­ful dis­cov­ery of Hermione's that would make his wand point due north, there­fore en­abling him to check whether he was go­ing in the right di­rec­tion with­in the maze. He was still hav­ing trou­ble with the Shield Charm, though. This was sup­posed to cast a tem­po­rary, in­vis­ible wall around him­self that de­flect­ed mi­nor curs­es; Hermione man­aged to shat­ter it with a well-​placed Jel­ly-​Legs Jinx, and Har­ry wob­bled around the room for ten min­utes af­ter­ward be­fore she had looked up the counter-​jinx.

“You're still do­ing re­al­ly well, though,” Hermione said en­cour­ag­ing­ly, look­ing down her list and cross­ing off those spells they had al­ready learned. “Some of these are bound to come in handy.”

“Come and look at this,” said Ron, who was stand­ing by the win­dow. He was star­ing down on­to the grounds. “What's Mal­foy do­ing?”

Har­ry and Hermione went to see. Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle were stand­ing in the shad­ow of a tree be­low. Crabbe and Goyle seemed to be keep­ing a look­out; both were smirk­ing. Mal­foy was hold­ing his hand up to his mouth and speak­ing in­to it.

“He looks like he's us­ing a walkie-​talkie,” said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly.

“He can't be,” said Hermione, “I've told you, those sorts of things don't work around Hog­warts. Come on, Har­ry,” she added briskly, turn­ing away from the win­dow and mov­ing back in­to the mid­dle of the room, “let's try that Shield Charm again.”

Sir­ius was send­ing dai­ly owls now. Like Hermione, he seemed to want to con­cen­trate on get­ting Har­ry through the last task be­fore they con­cerned them­selves with any­thing else. He re­mind­ed Har­ry in ev­ery let­ter that what­ev­er might be go­ing on out­side the walls of Hog­warts was not Har­ry's re­spon­si­bil­ity, nor was it with­in his pow­er to in­flu­ence it.



If Volde­mort is re­al­ly get­ting stronger again, he wrote, my pri­or­ity is to en­sure your safe­ty. He can­not hope to lay hands on you while you are un­der Dum­ble­dore's pro­tec­tion, but all the same, take no risks: Con­cen­trate on get­ting through that maze safe­ly, and then we can turn our at­ten­tion to oth­er mat­ters.



Har­ry's nerves mount­ed as June the twen­ty-​fourth drew clos­er, but they were not as bad as those he had felt be­fore the first and sec­ond tasks. For one thing, he was con­fi­dent that, this time, he had done ev­ery­thing in his pow­er to pre­pare for the task. For an­oth­er, this was the fi­nal hur­dle, and how­ev­er well or bad­ly he did, the tour­na­ment would at last be over, which would be an enor­mous re­lief.



Break­fast was a very noisy af­fair at the Gryffind­or ta­ble on the morn­ing of the third task. The post owls ap­peared, bring­ing Har­ry a good-​luck card from Sir­ius. It was on­ly a piece of parch­ment, fold­ed over and bear­ing a mud­dy paw print on its front, but Har­ry ap­pre­ci­at­ed it all the same. A screech owl ar­rived for Hermione, car­ry­ing her morn­ing copy of the Dai­ly Prophet as usu­al. She un­fold­ed the pa­per, glanced at the front page, and spat out a mouth­ful of pump­kin juice all over it.

“What?” said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er, star­ing at her. “Noth­ing,” said Hermione quick­ly, try­ing to shove the pa­per out of sight, but Ron grabbed it. He stared at the head­line and said, “No way. Not to­day. That old cow.”

“What?” said Har­ry. “Ri­ta Skeeter again?”

“No,” said Ron, and just like Hermione, he at­tempt­ed to push the pa­per out of sight.

“It's about me, isn't it?” said Har­ry.

“No,” said Ron, in an en­tire­ly un­con­vinc­ing tone. But be­fore Har­ry could de­mand to see the pa­per. Dra­co Mal­foy shout­ed across the Great Hall from the Slytherin ta­ble.

“Hey, Pot­ter! Pot­ter! How's your head? You feel­ing all right? Sure you're not go­ing to go berserk on us?”

Mal­foy was hold­ing a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet too. Slytherins up and down the ta­ble were snig­ger­ing, twist­ing in their seats to see Har­ry's re­ac­tion.

“Let me see it,” Har­ry said to Ron. “Give it here.”

Very re­luc­tant­ly, Ron hand­ed over the news­pa­per. Har­ry turned it over and found him­self star­ing at his own pic­ture, be­neath the ban­ner head­line:



"HAR­RY POT­TER

“DIS­TURBED AND DAN­GER­OUS”

The boy who de­feat­ed He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named is un­sta­ble and pos­si­bly dan­ger­ous, writes Ri­ta Skeeter, Spe­cial Cor­re­spon­dent. Alarm­ing ev­idence has re­cent­ly come to light about Har­ry Pot­ter's strange be­hav­ior, which casts doubts up­on his suit­abil­ity to com­pete in a de­mand­ing com­pe­ti­tion like the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment, or even to at­tend Hog­warts School.

Pot­ter, the Dai­ly Prophet can ex­clu­sive­ly re­veal, reg­ular­ly col­laps­es at school, and is of­ten heard to com­plain of pain in the scar on his fore­head (rel­ic of the curse with which You-​Know-​Who at­tempt­ed to kill him). On Mon­day last, mid­way through a Div­ina­tion les­son, your Dai­ly Prophet re­porter wit­nessed Pot­ter storm­ing from the class, claim­ing that his scar was hurt­ing too bad­ly to con­tin­ue study­ing.

It is pos­si­ble, say top ex­perts at St. Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­juries, that Pot­ters brain was af­fect­ed by the at­tack in­flict­ed up­on him by You-​Know-​Who, and that his in­sis­tence that the scar is still hurt­ing is an ex­pres­sion of his deep-​seat­ed con­fu­sion.

“He might even be pre­tend­ing,” said one spe­cial­ist. “This could be a plea for at­ten­tion.”

The Dai­ly Prophet, how­ev­er, has un­earthed wor­ry­ing facts about Har­ry Pot­ter that Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, Head­mas­ter of Hog­warts, has care­ful­ly con­cealed from the wiz­ard­ing pub­lic.

“Pot­ter can speak Parsel­tongue,” re­veals Dra­co Mal­foy, a Hog­warts fourth year. “There were a lot of at­tacks on stu­dents a cou­ple of years ago, and most peo­ple thought Pot­ter was be­hind them af­ter they saw him lose his tem­per at a du­el­ing club and set a snake on an­oth­er boy. It was all hushed up, though. But he's made friends with were­wolves and gi­ants too. We think he'd do any­thing for a bit of pow­er.”

Parsel­tongue, the abil­ity to con­verse with snakes, has long been con­sid­ered a Dark Art. In­deed, the most fa­mous Parsel­mouth of our times is none oth­er than You-​Know-​Who him­self. A mem­ber of the Dark Force De­fense League, who wished to re­main un­named, stat­ed that he would re­gard any wiz­ard who could speak Parsel­tongue “as wor­thy of in­ves­ti­ga­tion. Per­son­al­ly, I would be high­ly sus­pi­cious of any­body who could con­verse with snakes, as ser­pents are of­ten used in the worst kinds of Dark Mag­ic, and are his­tor­ical­ly as­so­ci­at­ed with evil­do­ers.” Sim­ilar­ly, “any­one who seeks out the com­pa­ny of such vi­cious crea­tures as were­wolves and gi­ants would ap­pear to have a fond­ness for vi­olence.”

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore should sure­ly con­sid­er whether a boy such as this should be al­lowed to com­pete in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. Some fear that Pot­ter might re­sort to the Dark Arts in his des­per­ation to win the tour­na­ment, the third task of which takes place this evening.



“Gone off me a bit, hasn't she?” said Har­ry light­ly, fold­ing up the pa­per.

Over at the Slytherin ta­ble, Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle were laugh­ing at him, tap­ping their heads with their fin­gers, pulling grotesque­ly mad faces, and wag­gling their tongues like snakes.

“How did she know your scar hurt in Div­ina­tion?” Ron said. “There's no way she was there, there's no way she could've heard -”

“The win­dow was open,” said Har­ry. “I opened it to breathe.”

“You were at the top of North Tow­er!” Hermione said. “Your voice couldn't have car­ried all the way down to the grounds!”

“Well, you're the one who's sup­posed to be re­search­ing mag­ical meth­ods of bug­ging!” said Har­ry. “You tell me how she did it!”

“I've been try­ing!” said Hermione. “But I…but…”

An odd, dreamy ex­pres­sion sud­den­ly came over Hermione's face. She slow­ly raised a hand and ran her fin­gers through her hair.

“Are you all right?” said Ron, frown­ing at her.

“Yes,” said Hermione breath­less­ly. She ran her fin­gers through her hair again, and then held her hand up to her mouth, as though speak­ing in­to an in­vis­ible walkie-​talkie. Har­ry and Ron stared at each oth­er.

“I've had an idea,” Hermione said, gaz­ing in­to space. “I think I know…be­cause then no one would be able to see…even Moody…and she'd have been able to get on­to the win­dow ledge…but she's not al­lowed…she's def­inite­ly not al­lowed…I think we've got her! Just give me two sec­onds in the li­brary - just to make sure!”

With that, Hermione seized her school bag and dashed out of the Great Hall.

“Oi!” Ron called af­ter her. “We've got our His­to­ry of Mag­ic ex­am in ten min­utes! Blimey,” he said, turn­ing back to Har­ry, “she must re­al­ly hate that Skeeter wom­an to risk miss­ing the start of an ex­am. What're you go­ing to do in Binns's class - read again?”

Ex­empt from the end-​of-​term tests as a Tri­wiz­ard cham­pi­on, Har­ry had been sit­ting in the back of ev­ery ex­am class so far, look­ing up fresh hex­es for the third task.

“S'pose so,” Har­ry said to Ron; but just then. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall came walk­ing along­side the Gryffind­or ta­ble to­ward him.

“Pot­ter, the cham­pi­ons are con­gre­gat­ing in the cham­ber off the Hall af­ter break­fast,” she said.

“But the task's not till tonight!” said Har­ry, ac­ci­den­tal­ly spilling scram­bled eggs down his front, afraid he had mis­tak­en the time.

“I'm aware of that, Pot­ter,” she said. “The cham­pi­ons' fam­ilies are in­vit­ed to watch the fi­nal task, you know. This is sim­ply a chance for you to greet them.”

She moved away. Har­ry gaped af­ter her.

“She doesn't ex­pect the Durs­leys to turn up, does she?” he asked Ron blankly.

“Dun­no,” said Ron. “Har­ry, I'd bet­ter hur­ry, I'm go­ing to be late for Binns. See you lat­er.”

Har­ry fin­ished his break­fast in the emp­ty­ing Great Hall. He saw Fleur Dela­cour get up from the Raven­claw ta­ble and join Cedric as he crossed to the side cham­ber and en­tered. Krum slouched off to join them short­ly af­ter­ward. Har­ry stayed where he was. He re­al­ly didn't want to go in­to the cham­ber. He had no fam­ily - no fam­ily who would turn up to see him risk his life, any­way. But just as he was get­ting up, think­ing that he might as well go up to the li­brary and do a spot more hex re­search, the door of the side cham­ber opened, and Cedric stuck his head out.

“Har­ry, come on, they're wait­ing for you!”

Ut­ter­ly per­plexed. Har­ry got up. The Durs­leys couldn't pos­si­bly be here, could they? He walked across the Hall and opened the door in­to the cham­ber.

Cedric and his par­ents were just in­side the door. Vik­tor Krum was over in a cor­ner, con­vers­ing with his dark-​haired moth­er and fa­ther in rapid Bul­gar­ian. He had in­her­it­ed his fa­thers hooked nose. On the oth­er side of the room, Fleur was jab­ber­ing away in French to her moth­er. Fleur's lit­tle sis­ter, Gabrielle, was hold­ing her moth­er's hand. She waved at Har­ry, who waved back, grin­ning. Then he saw Mrs. Weasley and Bill stand­ing in front of the fire­place, beam­ing at him.

“Sur­prise!” Mrs. Weasley said ex­cit­ed­ly as he smiled broad­ly and walked over to them. “Thought we'd come and watch you. Har­ry!” She bent down and kissed him on the cheek.

“You all right?” said Bill, grin­ning at Har­ry and shak­ing his hand. “Char­lie want­ed to come, but he couldn't get time off. He said you were in­cred­ible against the Horn­tail.”

Fleur Dela­cour, Har­ry no­ticed, was eye­ing Bill with great in­ter­est over her moth­er's shoul­der. Har­ry could tell she had no ob­jec­tion what­so­ev­er to long hair or ear­rings with fangs on them.

“This is re­al­ly nice of you,” Har­ry mut­tered to Mrs. Weasley. “I thought for a mo­ment - the Durs­leys -”

“Hmm,” said Mrs. Weasley, purs­ing her lips. She had al­ways re­frained from crit­iciz­ing the Durs­leys in front of Har­ry, but her eyes flashed ev­ery time they were men­tioned.

“It's great be­ing back here,” said Bill, look­ing around the cham­ber (Vi­olet, the Fat La­dy's friend, winked at him from her frame). “Haven't seen this place for five years. Is that pic­ture of the mad knight still around? Sir Cado­gan?”

“Oh yeah,” said Har­ry, who had met Sir Cado­gan the pre­vi­ous year.

“And the Fat La­dy?” said Bill.

“She was here in my time,” said Mrs. Weasley. “She gave me such a telling off one night when I got back to the dor­mi­to­ry at four in the morn­ing -”

“What were you do­ing out of your dor­mi­to­ry at four in the morn­ing?” said Bill, sur­vey­ing his moth­er with amaze­ment.

Mrs. Weasley grinned, her eyes twin­kling.

“Your fa­ther and I had been for a night­time stroll,” she said. “He got caught by Apol­ly­on Pringle - he was the care­tak­er in those days - your fa­ther's still got the marks.”

“Fan­cy giv­ing us a tour, Har­ry?” said Bill.

“Yeah, okay,” said Har­ry, and they made their way back to­ward the door in­to the Great Hall. As they passed Amos Dig­gory, he looked around.

“There you are, are you?” he said, look­ing Har­ry up and down.

“Bet you're not feel­ing quite as full of your­self now Cedric's caught you up on points, are you?”

“What?” said Har­ry.

“Ig­nore him,” said Cedric in a low voice to Har­ry, frown­ing af­ter his fa­ther. “He's been an­gry ev­er since Ri­ta Skeeter's ar­ti­cle about the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment - you know, when she made out you were the on­ly Hog­warts cham­pi­on.”

“Didn't both­er to cor­rect her, though, did he?” said Amos Dig­gory, loud­ly enough for Har­ry to hear as he start­ed to walk out of the door with Mrs. Weasley and Bill. “Still,…you'll show him, Ced. Beat­en him once be­fore, haven't you?”

“Ri­ta Skeeter goes out of her way to cause trou­ble, Amos!” Mrs. Weasley said an­gri­ly. “I would have thought you'd know that, work­ing at the Min­istry!”

Mr. Dig­gory looked as though he was go­ing to say some­thing an­gry, but his wife laid a hand on his arm, and he mere­ly shrugged and turned away.

Har­ry had a very en­joy­able morn­ing walk­ing over the sun­ny grounds with Bill and Mrs. Weasley, show­ing them the Beaux­ba­tons car­riage and the Durm­strang ship. Mrs. Weasley was in­trigued by the Whomp­ing Wil­low, which had been plant­ed af­ter she had left school, and rem­inisced at length about the game­keep­er be­fore Ha­grid, a man called Ogg.

“How's Per­cy?” Har­ry asked as they walked around the green­hous­es.

“Not good,” said Bill.

“He's very up­set,” said Mrs. Weasley, low­er­ing her voice and glanc­ing around. “The Min­istry wants to keep Mr. Crouch's dis­ap­pear­ance qui­et, but Per­cy's been hauled in for ques­tion­ing about the in­struc­tions Mr. Crouch has been send­ing in. They seem to think there's a chance they weren't gen­uine­ly writ­ten by him. Per­cy's been un­der a lot of strain. They're not let­ting him fill in for Mr. Crouch as the fifth judge tonight. Cor­nelius Fudge is go­ing to be do­ing it.”

They re­turned to the cas­tle for lunch.

“Mum - Bill!” said Ron, look­ing stunned, as he joined the Gryffind­or ta­ble. “What're you do­ing here?”

“Come to watch Har­ry in the last task!” said Mrs. Weasley bright­ly. “I must say, it makes a love­ly change, not hav­ing to cook. How was your ex­am?”

“Oh…okay,” said Ron. “Couldn't re­mem­ber all the gob­lin rebels' names, so I in­vent­ed a few. It's all right,” he said, help­ing him­self to a Cor­nish pasty, while Mrs. Weasley looked stern, “they're all called stuff like Bo­drod the Beard­ed and Urg the Un­clean; it wasn't hard.”

Fred, George, and Gin­ny came to sit next to them too, and Har­ry was hav­ing such a good time he felt al­most as though he were back at the Bur­row; he had for­got­ten to wor­ry about that evening's task, and not un­til Hermione turned up, halfway through lunch, did he re­mem­ber that she had had a brain­wave about Ri­ta Skeeter.

“Are you go­ing to tell us -?”

Hermione shook her head warn­ing­ly and glanced at Mrs. Weasley.

“Hel­lo, Hermione,” said Mrs. Weasley, much more stiffly than usu­al.

“Hel­lo,” said Hermione, her smile fal­ter­ing at the cold ex­pres­sion on Mrs. Weasley's face.

Har­ry looked be­tween them, then said, “Mrs. Weasley, you didn't be­lieve that rub­bish Ri­ta Skeeter wrote in Witch Week­ly, did you? Be­cause Hermione's not my girl­friend.”

“Oh!” said Mrs. Weasley “No - of course I didn't!”

But she be­came con­sid­er­ably warmer to­ward Hermione af­ter that.

Har­ry, Bill, and Mrs. Weasley whiled away the af­ter­noon with a long walk around the cas­tle, and then re­turned to the Great Hall for the evening feast. Lu­do Bag­man and Cor­nelius Fudge had joined the staff ta­ble now. Bag­man looked quite cheer­ful, but Cor­nelius Fudge, who was sit­ting next to Madame Maxime, looked stern and was not talk­ing. Madame Maxime was con­cen­trat­ing on her plate, and Har­ry thought her eyes looked red. Ha­grid kept glanc­ing along the ta­ble at her,

There were more cours­es than usu­al, but Har­ry, who was start­ing to feel re­al­ly ner­vous now, didn't eat much. As the en­chant­ed ceil­ing over­head be­gan to fade from blue to a dusky pur­ple, Dum­ble­dore rose to his feet at the staff ta­ble, and si­lence fell.

“Ladies and gen­tle­men, in five min­utes' time, I will be ask­ing you to make your way down to the Quid­ditch field for the third and fi­nal task of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. Will the cham­pi­ons please fol­low Mr. Bag­man down to the sta­di­um now.”

Har­ry got up. The Gryffind­ors all along the ta­ble were ap­plaud­ing him; the Weasleys and Hermione all wished him good luck, and he head­ed off out of the Great Hall with Cedric, Fleur, and Vik­tor.

“Feel­ing all right. Har­ry?” Bag­man asked as they went down the stone steps on­to the grounds. “Con­fi­dent?”

“I'm okay,” said Har­ry. It was sort of true; he was ner­vous, but he kept run­ning over all the hex­es and spells he had been prac­tic­ing in his mind as they walked, and the knowl­edge that he could re­mem­ber them all made him feel bet­ter.

They walked on­to the Quid­ditch field, which was now com­plete­ly un­rec­og­niz­able. A twen­ty-​foot-​high hedge ran all the way around the edge of it. There was a gap right in front of them: the en­trance to the vast maze. The pas­sage be­yond it looked dark and creepy.

Five min­utes lat­er, the stands had be­gun to fill; the air was full of ex­cit­ed voic­es and the rum­bling of feet as the hun­dreds of stu­dents filed in­to their seats. The sky was a deep, clear blue now, and the first stars were start­ing to ap­pear. Ha­grid, Pro­fes­sor Moody, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Pro­fes­sor Flitwick came walk­ing in­to the sta­di­um and ap­proached Bag­man and the cham­pi­ons. They were wear­ing large, red, lu­mi­nous stars on their hats, all ex­cept Ha­grid, who had his on the back of his mole­skin vest.

“We are go­ing to be pa­trolling the out­side of the maze,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall to the cham­pi­ons. “If you get in­to dif­fi­cul­ty, and wish to be res­cued, send red sparks in­to the air, and one of us will come and get you, do you un­der­stand?”

The cham­pi­ons nod­ded.

“Off you go, then!” said Bag­man bright­ly to the four pa­trollers.

“Good luck. Har­ry,” Ha­grid whis­pered, and the four of them walked away in dif­fer­ent di­rec­tions, to sta­tion them­selves around the maze. Bag­man now point­ed his wand at his throat, mut­tered, “Sonorus,” and his mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied voice echoed in­to the stands.

“Ladies and gen­tle­men, the third and fi­nal task of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment is about to be­gin! Let me re­mind you how the points cur­rent­ly stand! Tied in first place, with eighty-​five points each - Mr. Cedric Dig­gory and Mr. Har­ry Pot­ter, both of Hog­warts School!” The cheers and ap­plause sent birds from the For­bid­den For­est flut­ter­ing in­to the dark­en­ing sky. “In sec­ond place, with eighty points - Mr. Vik­tor Krum, of Durm­strang In­sti­tute!” More ap­plause. “And in third place - Miss Fleur Dela­cour, of Beaux­ba­tons Acade­my!”

Har­ry could just make out Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, and Hermione ap­plaud­ing Fleur po­lite­ly, halfway up the stands. He waved up at them, and they waved back, beam­ing at him.

“So…on my whis­tle, Har­ry and Cedric!” said Bag­man. “Three - two - one -”

He gave a short blast on his whis­tle, and Har­ry and Cedric hur­ried for­ward in­to the maze.

The tow­er­ing hedges cast black shad­ows across the path, and, whether be­cause they were so tall and thick or be­cause they had been en­chant­ed, the sound of the sur­round­ing crowd was si­lenced the mo­ment they en­tered the maze. Har­ry felt al­most as though he were un­der­wa­ter again. He pulled out his wand, mut­tered, “Lu­mos,” and heard Cedric do the same just be­hind him.

Af­ter about fifty yards, they reached a fork. They looked at each oth­er.

“See you,” Har­ry said, and he took the left one, while Cedric took the right.

Har­ry heard Bag­man's whis­tle for the sec­ond time. Krum had en­tered the maze. Har­ry sped up. His cho­sen path seemed com­plete­ly de­sert­ed. He turned right, and hur­ried on, hold­ing his wand high over his head, try­ing to see as far ahead as pos­si­ble. Still, there was noth­ing in sight.

Bag­man's whis­tle blew in the dis­tance for the third time. All of the cham­pi­ons were now in­side.

Har­ry kept look­ing be­hind him. The old feel­ing that he was be­ing watched was up­on him. The maze was grow­ing dark­er with ev­ery pass­ing minute as the sky over­head deep­ened to navy. He reached a sec­ond fork.

“Point Me,” he whis­pered to his wand, hold­ing it flat in his palm.

The wand spun around once and point­ed to­ward his right, in­to sol­id hedge. That way was north, and he knew that he need­ed to go north­west for the cen­ter of the maze. The best he could do was to take the left fork and go right again as soon as pos­si­ble.

The path ahead was emp­ty too, and when Har­ry reached a right turn and took it, he again found his way un­blocked. Har­ry didn't know why, but the lack of ob­sta­cles was un­nerv­ing him. Sure­ly he should have met some­thing by now? It felt as though the maze were lur­ing him in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty. Then he heard move­ment right be­hind him. He held out his wand, ready to at­tack, but its beam fell on­ly up­on Cedric, who had just hur­ried out of a path on the right-​hand side. Cedric looked severe­ly shak­en. The sleeve of his robe was smok­ing.

“Ha­grid's Blast-​End­ed Skrewts!” he hissed. “They're enor­mous - I on­ly just got away!”

He shook his head and dived out of sight, along an­oth­er path. Keen to put plen­ty of dis­tance be­tween him­self and the skrewts, Har­ry hur­ried off again. Then, as he turned a cor­ner, he saw…a de­men­tor glid­ing to­ward him. Twelve feet tall, its face hid­den by its hood, its rot­ting, scabbed hands out­stretched, it ad­vanced, sens­ing its way blind­ly to­ward him. Har­ry could hear its rat­tling breath; he felt clam­my cold­ness steal­ing over him, but knew what he had to do.…

He sum­moned the hap­pi­est thought he could, con­cen­trat­ed with all his might on the thought of get­ting out of the maze and cel­ebrat­ing with Ron and Hermione, raised his wand, and cried, “Ex­pec­to Pa­tron­um!”

A sil­ver stag erupt­ed from the end of Har­ry's wand and gal­loped to­ward the de­men­tor, which fell back and tripped over the hem of its robes.…Har­ry had nev­er seen a de­men­tor stum­ble.

“Hang on!” he shout­ed, ad­vanc­ing in the wake of his sil­ver Pa­tronus, “You're a bog­gart! Rid­diku­lus!”

There was a loud crack, and the shape-​shifter ex­plod­ed in a wisp of smoke. The sil­ver stag fad­ed from sight. Har­ry wished it could have stayed, he could have used some com­pa­ny…but he moved on, quick­ly and qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble, lis­ten­ing hard, his wand held high once more.

Left…right…left again…Twice he found him­self fac­ing dead ends. He did the Four-​Point Spell again and found that he was go­ing too far east. He turned back, took a right turn, and saw an odd gold­en mist float­ing ahead of him.

Har­ry ap­proached it cau­tious­ly, point­ing the wand's beam at it. This looked like some kind of en­chant­ment. He won­dered whether he might be able to blast it out of the way.

“Re­ducio!” he said.

The spell shot straight through the mist, leav­ing it in­tact. He sup­posed he should have known bet­ter; the Re­duc­tor Curse was for sol­id ob­jects. What would hap­pen if he walked through the mist? Was it worth chanc­ing it, or should he dou­ble back?

He was still hes­itat­ing when a scream shat­tered the si­lence.

“Fleur?” Har­ry yelled.

There was si­lence. He stared all around him. What had hap­pened to her? Her scream seemed to have come from some­where ahead. He took a deep breath and ran through the en­chant­ed mist.

The world turned up­side down. Har­ry was hang­ing from the ground, with his hair on end, his glass­es dan­gling off his nose, threat­en­ing to fall in­to the bot­tom­less sky. He clutched them to the end of his nose and hung there, ter­ri­fied. It felt as though his feet were glued to the grass, which had now be­come the ceil­ing. Be­low him the dark, star-​span­gled heav­ens stretched end­less­ly. He felt as though if he tried to move one of his feet, he would fall away from the earth com­plete­ly.

Think, he told him­self, as all the blood rushed to his head, think…

But not one of the spells he had prac­ticed had been de­signed to com­bat a sud­den re­ver­sal of ground and sky. Did he dare move his foot? He could hear the blood pound­ing in his ears. He had two choic­es - try and move, or send up red sparks, and get res­cued and dis­qual­ified from the task.

He shut his eyes, so he wouldn't be able to see the view of end­less space be­low him, and pulled his right foot as hard as he could away from the grassy ceil­ing.

Im­me­di­ate­ly, the world right­ed it­self. Har­ry fell for­ward on­to his knees on­to the won­der­ful­ly sol­id ground. He felt tem­porar­ily limp with shock. He took a deep, steady­ing breath, then got up again and hur­ried for­ward, look­ing back over his shoul­der as he ran away from the gold­en mist, which twin­kled in­no­cent­ly at him in the moon­light.

He paused at a junc­tion of two paths and looked around for some sign of Fleur. He was sure it had been she who had screamed. What had she met? Was she all right? There was no sign of red sparks - did that mean she had got her­self out of trou­ble, or was she in such trou­ble that she couldn't reach her wand? Har­ry took the right fork with a feel­ing of in­creas­ing un­ease…but at the same time, he couldn't help think­ing. One cham­pi­on down…

The cup was some­where close by, and it sound­ed as though Fleur was no longer in the run­ning. He'd got this far, hadn't he? What if he ac­tu­al­ly man­aged to win? Fleet­ing­ly, and for the first time since he'd found him­self cham­pi­on, he saw again that im­age of him­self, rais­ing the Tri­wiz­ard Cup in front of the rest of the school.…

He met noth­ing for ten min­utes, but kept run­ning in­to dead ends. Twice he took the same wrong turn­ing. Fi­nal­ly, he found a new route and start­ed to jog along it, his wan­dlight wav­ing, mak­ing his shad­ow flick­er and dis­tort on the hedge walls. Then he round­ed an­oth­er cor­ner and found him­self fac­ing a Blast-​End­ed Skrewt.

Cedric was right - it was enor­mous. Ten feet long, it looked more like a gi­ant scor­pi­on than any­thing. Its long sting was curled over its back. Its thick ar­mor glint­ed in the light from Har­ry's wand, which he point­ed at it.

“Stu­pe­fy!”

The spell hit the skrewt's ar­mor and re­bound­ed; Har­ry ducked just in time, but could smell burn­ing hair; it had singed the top of his head. The skrewt is­sued a blast of fire from its end and flew for­ward to­ward him.

“Im­ped­imen­ta!” Har­ry yelled. The spell hit the skrewt's ar­mor again and ric­ocheted off; Har­ry stag­gered back a few paces and fell over. “IM­PED­IMEN­TA!”

The skrewt was inch­es from him when it froze - he had man­aged to hit it on its fleshy, shell-​less un­der­side. Pant­ing, Har­ry pushed him­self away from it and ran, hard, in the op­po­site di­rec­tion - the Im­ped­iment Curse was not per­ma­nent; the skrewt would be re­gain­ing the use of its legs at any mo­ment.

He took a left path and hit a dead end, a right, and hit an­oth­er; forc­ing him­self to stop, heart ham­mer­ing, he per­formed the Four-​Point Spell again, back­tracked, and chose a path that would take him north­west.

He had been hur­ry­ing along the new path for a few min­utes, when he heard some­thing in the path run­ning par­al­lel to his own that made him stop dead.

“What are you do­ing?” yelled Cedric's voice. “What the hell d'you think you're do­ing?”

And then Har­ry heard Krum's voice.

“Cru­cio!”

The air was sud­den­ly full of Cedric's yells. Hor­ri­fied, Har­ry be­gan sprint­ing up his path, try­ing to find a way in­to Cedric's. When none ap­peared, he tried the Re­duc­tor Curse again. It wasn't very ef­fec­tive, but it burned a small hole in the hedge through which Har­ry forced his leg, kick­ing at the thick bram­bles and branch­es un­til they broke and made an open­ing; he strug­gled through it, tear­ing his robes, and look­ing to his right, saw Cedric jerk­ing and twitch­ing on the ground, Krum stand­ing over him.

Har­ry pulled him­self up and point­ed his wand at Krum just as Krum looked up. Krum turned and be­gan to run.

“Stu­pe­fy!” Har­ry yelled.

The spell hit Krum in the back; he stopped dead in his tracks, fell for­ward, and lay mo­tion­less, face­down in the grass. Har­ry-​dashed over to Cedric, who had stopped twitch­ing and was ly­ing there pant­ing, his hands over his face.

“Are you all right?” Har­ry said rough­ly, grab­bing Cedric's arm.

“Yeah,” pant­ed Cedric. “Yeah…I don't be­lieve it…he crept up be­hind me.…I heard him, I turned around, and he had his wand on me.…”

Cedric got up. He was still shak­ing. He and Har­ry looked down at Krum.

“I can't be­lieve this…I thought he was all right,” Har­ry said, star­ing at Krum.

“So did I,” said Cedric.

“Did you hear Fleur scream ear­li­er?” said Har­ry.

“Yeah,” said Cedric. “You don't think Krum got her too?”

“I don't know,” said Har­ry slow­ly.

“Should we leave him here?” Cedric mut­tered.

“No,” said Har­ry. “I reck­on we should send up red sparks. Some­one'll come and col­lect him…oth­er­wise he'll prob­ably be eat­en by a skrewt.”

“He'd de­serve it,” Cedric mut­tered, but all the same, he raised his wand and shot a show­er of red sparks in­to the air, which hov­ered high above Krum, mark­ing the spot where he lay.

Har­ry and Cedric stood there in the dark­ness for a mo­ment, look­ing around them. Then Cedric said, “Well…I s'pose we'd bet­ter go on.…”

“What?” said Har­ry. “Oh…yeah…right…”

It was an odd mo­ment. He and Cedric had been briefly unit­ed against Krum - now the fact that they were op­po­nents came back to Har­ry. The two of them pro­ceed­ed up the dark path with­out speak­ing, then Har­ry turned left, and Cedric right. Cedric's foot­steps soon died away.

Har­ry moved on, con­tin­uing to use the Four-​Point Spell, mak­ing sure he was mov­ing in the right di­rec­tion. It was be­tween him and Cedric now. His de­sire to reach the cup first was now burn­ing stronger than ev­er, but he could hard­ly be­lieve what he'd just seen Krum do. The use of an Un­for­giv­able Curse on a fel­low hu­man be­ing meant a life term in Azk­aban, that was what Moody had told them. Krum sure­ly couldn't have want­ed the Tri­wiz­ard Cup that bad­ly.…Har­ry sped up.

Ev­ery so of­ten he hit more dead ends, but the in­creas­ing dark­ness made him feel sure he was get­ting near the heart of the maze. Then, as he strode down a long, straight path, he saw move­ment once again, and his beam of wan­dlight hit an ex­traor­di­nary crea­ture, one which he had on­ly seen in pic­ture form, in his Mon­ster Book of Mon­sters.

It was a sphinx. It had the body of an over-​large li­on: great clawed paws and a long yel­low­ish tail end­ing in a brown tuft. Its head, how­ev­er, was that of a wom­an. She turned her long, al­mond-​shaped eyes up­on Har­ry as he ap­proached. He raised his wand, hes­itat­ing. She was not crouch­ing as if to spring, but pac­ing from side to side of the path, block­ing his progress. Then she spoke, in a deep, hoarse voice.

“You are very near your goal. The quick­est way is past me.”

“So…so will you move, please?” said Har­ry, know­ing what the an­swer was go­ing to be.

“No,” she said, con­tin­uing to pace. “Not un­less you can an­swer my rid­dle. An­swer on your first guess - I let you pass. An­swer wrong­ly - I at­tack. Re­main silent - I will let you walk away from me un­scathed.”

Har­ry's stom­ach slipped sev­er­al notch­es. It was Hermione who was good at this sort of thing, not him. He weighed his chances. If the rid­dle was too hard, he could keep silent, get away from the sphinx un­harmed, and try and find an al­ter­na­tive route to the cen­ter.

“Okay,” he said. “Can I hear the rid­dle?”

The sphinx sat down up­on her hind legs, in the very mid­dle of the path, and re­cit­ed:



"First think of the per­son who lives in dis­guise,

Who deals in se­crets and tells naught but lies.

Next, tell me what's al­ways the last thing to mend,

The mid­dle of mid­dle and end of the end?

And fi­nal­ly give me the sound of­ten heard

Dur­ing the search for a hard-​to-​find word.

Now string them to­geth­er, and an­swer me this,

Which crea­ture would you be un­will­ing to kiss?"



Har­ry gaped at her.

“Could I have it again…more slow­ly?” he asked ten­ta­tive­ly. She blinked at him, smiled, and re­peat­ed the po­em. “All the clues add up to a crea­ture I wouldn't want to kiss?” Har­ry asked.

She mere­ly smiled her mys­te­ri­ous smile. Har­ry took that for a “yes.” Har­ry cast his mind around. There were plen­ty of an­imals he wouldn't want to kiss; his im­me­di­ate thought was a Blast-​End­ed Skrewt, but some­thing told him that wasn't the an­swer. He'd have to try and work out the clues.…

“A per­son in dis­guise,” Har­ry mut­tered, star­ing at her, “who lies…er…that'd be a - an im­pos­tor. No, that's not my guess! A - a spy? I'll come back to that…could you give me the next clue again, please?”

She re­peat­ed the next lines of the po­em.

“'The last thing to mend,'” Har­ry re­peat­ed. “Er…no idea…'mid­dle of mid­dle'…could I have the last bit again?”

She gave him the last four lines.

“'The sound of­ten heard dur­ing the search for a hard-​to-​find word,'” said Har­ry. “Er…that'd be…er…hang on - 'er'! Er's a sound!”

The sphinx smiled at him.

“Spy…er…spy…er…” said Har­ry, pac­ing up and down. “A crea­ture I wouldn't want to kiss…a spi­der!”

The sphinx smiled more broad­ly. She got up, stretched her front legs, and then moved aside for him to pass.

“Thanks!” said Har­ry, and, amazed at his own bril­liance, he dashed for­ward.

He had to be close now, he had to be.…His wand was telling him he was bang on course; as long as he didn't meet any­thing too hor­ri­ble, he might have a chance.…

Har­ry broke in­to a run. He had a choice of paths up ahead. “Point Me!” he whis­pered again to his wand, and it spun around and point­ed him to the right-​hand one. He dashed up this one and saw light ahead.

The Tri­wiz­ard Cup was gleam­ing on a plinth a hun­dred yards away. Sud­den­ly a dark fig­ure hur­tled out on­to the path in front of him.

Cedric was go­ing to get there first. Cedric was sprint­ing as fast as he could to­ward the cup, and Har­ry knew he would nev­er catch up, Cedric was much taller, had much longer legs -

Then Har­ry saw some­thing im­mense over a hedge to his left, mov­ing quick­ly along a path that in­ter­sect­ed with his own; it was mov­ing so fast Cedric was about to run in­to it, and Cedric, his eyes on the cup, had not seen it -

“Cedric!” Har­ry bel­lowed. “On your left!”

Cedric looked around just in time to hurl him­self past the thing and avoid col­lid­ing with it, but in his haste, he tripped. Har­ry saw Cedric's wand fly out of his hand as a gi­gan­tic spi­der stepped in­to the path and be­gan to bear down up­on Cedric.

“Stu­pe­fy!” Har­ry yelled; the spell hit the spi­der's gi­gan­tic, hairy black body, but for all the good it did, he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spi­der jerked, scut­tled around, and ran at Har­ry in­stead.

“Stu­pe­fy! Im­ped­imen­ta! Stu­pe­fy!”

But it was no use - the spi­der was ei­ther so large, or so mag­ical, that the spells were do­ing no more than ag­gra­vat­ing it. Har­ry had one hor­ri­fy­ing glimpse of eight shin­ing black eyes and ra­zor-​sharp pin­cers be­fore it was up­on him.

He was lift­ed in­to the air in its front legs; strug­gling mad­ly, he tried to kick it; his leg con­nect­ed with the pin­cers and next mo­ment he was in ex­cru­ci­at­ing pain. He could hear Cedric yelling “Stu­pe­fy!” too, but his spell had no more ef­fect than Har­ry's - Har­ry raised his wand as the spi­der opened its pin­cers once more and shout­ed “Ex­pel­liar­mus!”

It worked - the Dis­arm­ing Spell made the spi­der drop him, but that meant that Har­ry fell twelve feet on­to his al­ready in­jured leg, which crum­pled be­neath him. With­out paus­ing to think, he aimed high at the spi­der's un­der­bel­ly, as he had done with the skrewt, and shout­ed "Stu­pe­fy!''just as Cedric yelled the same thing.

The two spells com­bined did what one alone had not: The spi­der keeled over side­ways, flat­ten­ing a near­by hedge, and strew­ing the path with a tan­gle of hairy legs.

“Har­ry!” he heard Cedric shout­ing. “You all right? Did it fall on you?”

“No,” Har­ry called back, pant­ing. He looked down at his leg. It was bleed­ing freely. He could see some sort of thick, gluey se­cre­tion from the spi­der's pin­cers on his torn robes. He tried to get up, but his leg was shak­ing bad­ly and did not want to sup­port his weight. He leaned against the hedge, gasp­ing for breath, and looked around.

Cedric was stand­ing feet from the Tri­wiz­ard Cup, which was gleam­ing be­hind him.

“Take it, then,” Har­ry pant­ed to Cedric. “Go on, take it. You're there.”

But Cedric didn't move. He mere­ly stood there, look­ing at Har­ry. Then he turned to stare at the cup. Har­ry saw the long­ing ex­pres­sion on his face in its gold­en light. Cedric looked around at Har­ry again, who was now hold­ing on­to the hedge to sup­port him­self. Cedric took a deep breath.

“You take it. You should win. That's twice you've saved my neck in here.”

“That's not how it's sup­posed to work,” Har­ry said. He felt an­gry; his leg was very painful, he was aching all over from try­ing to throw off the spi­der, and af­ter all his ef­forts, Cedric had beat­en him to it, just as he'd beat­en Har­ry to ask Cho to the ball. “The one who reach­es the cup first gets the points. That's you. I'm telling you, I'm not go­ing to win any races on this leg.”

Cedric took a few paces near­er to the Stunned spi­der, away from the cup, shak­ing his head.

“No,” he said.

“Stop be­ing no­ble,” said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. “Just take it, then we can get out of here.”

Cedric watched Har­ry steady­ing him­self, hold­ing tight to the hedge.

“You told me about the drag­ons,” Cedric said. “I would've gone down in the first task if you hadn't told me what was com­ing.”

“I had help on that too,” Har­ry snapped, try­ing to mop up his bloody leg with his robes. “You helped me with the egg - we're square.”

“I had help on the egg in the first place,” said Cedric.

“We're still square,” said Har­ry, test­ing his leg gin­ger­ly; it shook vi­olent­ly as he put weight on it; he had sprained his an­kle when the spi­der had dropped him.

“You should've got more points on the sec­ond task,” said Cedric mul­ish­ly. “You stayed be­hind to get all the hostages. I should've done that.”

“I was the on­ly one who was thick enough to take that song se­ri­ous­ly!” said Har­ry bit­ter­ly. “Just take the cup!”

“No,” said Cedric.

He stepped over the spi­der's tan­gled legs to join Har­ry, who stared at him. Cedric was se­ri­ous. He was walk­ing away from the sort of glo­ry Huf­flepuff House hadn't had in cen­turies.

“Go on,” Cedric said. He looked as though this was cost­ing him ev­ery ounce of res­olu­tion he had, but his face was set, his arms were fold­ed, he seemed de­cid­ed.

Har­ry looked from Cedric to the cup. For one shin­ing mo­ment, he saw him­self emerg­ing from the maze, hold­ing it. He saw him­self hold­ing the Tri­wiz­ard Cup aloft, heard the roar of the crowd, saw Cho's face shin­ing with ad­mi­ra­tion, more clear­ly than he had ev­er seen it be­fore…and then the pic­ture fad­ed, and he found him­self star­ing at Cedric's shad­owy, stub­born face.

“Both of us,” Har­ry said.

“What?”

“We'll take it at the same time. It's still a Hog­warts vic­to­ry. We'll tie for it.”

Cedric stared at Har­ry. He un­fold­ed his arms.

“You - you sure?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Yeah…we've helped each oth­er out, haven't we? We both got here. Let's just take it to­geth­er.”

For a mo­ment, Cedric looked as though he couldn't be­lieve his ears; then his face split in a grin.

“You're on,” he said. “Come here.”

He grabbed Har­ry's arm be­low the shoul­der and helped Har­ry limp to­ward the plinth where the cup stood. When they had reached it, they both held a hand out over one of the cup's gleam­ing han­dles.

“On three, right?” said Har­ry. “One - two - three -”

He and Cedric both grasped a han­dle.

In­stant­ly, Har­ry felt a jerk some­where be­hind his navel. His feet had left the ground. He could not un­clench the hand hold­ing the Tri­wiz­ard Cup; it was pulling him on­ward in a howl of wind and swirling col­or, Cedric at his side.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO


FLESH, BLOOD, AND BONE



H ar­ry felt his feet slam in­to the ground; his in­jured leg gave way, and he fell for­ward; his hand let go of the Tri­wiz­ard Cup at last. He raised his head.

“Where are we?” he said.

Cedric shook his head. He got up, pulled Har­ry to his feet, and they looked around.

They had left the Hog­warts grounds com­plete­ly; they had ob­vi­ous­ly trav­eled miles - per­haps hun­dreds of miles - for even the moun­tains sur­round­ing the cas­tle were gone. They were stand­ing in­stead in a dark and over­grown grave­yard; the black out­line of a small church was vis­ible be­yond a large yew tree to their right. A hill rose above them to their left. Har­ry could just make out the out­line of a fine old house on the hill­side.

Cedric looked down at the Tri­wiz­ard Cup and then up at Har­ry.

“Did any­one tell you the cup was a Portkey?” he asked.

“Nope,” said Har­ry. He was look­ing around the grave­yard. It was com­plete­ly silent and slight­ly eerie. “Is this sup­posed to be part of the task?”

“I dun­no,” said Cedric. He sound­ed slight­ly ner­vous. “Wands out, d'you reck­on?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, glad that Cedric had made the sug­ges­tion rather than him.

They pulled out their wands. Har­ry kept look­ing around him. He had, yet again, the strange feel­ing that they were be­ing watched.

“Some­one's com­ing,” he said sud­den­ly.

Squint­ing tense­ly through the dark­ness, they watched the fig­ure draw­ing near­er, walk­ing steadi­ly to­ward them be­tween the graves. Har­ry couldn't make out a face, but from the way it was walk­ing and hold­ing its arms, he could tell that it was car­ry­ing some­thing. Who­ev­er it was, he was short, and wear­ing a hood­ed cloak pulled up over his head to ob­scure his face. And - sev­er­al paces near­er, the gap be­tween them clos­ing all the time - Har­ry saw that the thing in the per­sons arms looked like a ba­by…or was it mere­ly a bun­dle of robes?

Har­ry low­ered his wand slight­ly and glanced side­ways at Cedric. Cedric shot him a quizzi­cal look. They both turned back to watch the ap­proach­ing fig­ure.

It stopped be­side a tow­er­ing mar­ble head­stone, on­ly six feet from them. For a sec­ond. Har­ry and Cedric and the short fig­ure sim­ply looked at one an­oth­er.

And then, with­out warn­ing, Har­ry's scar ex­plod­ed with pain. It was agony such as he had nev­er felt in all his life; his wand slipped from his fin­gers as he put his hands over his face; his knees buck­led; he was on the ground and he could see noth­ing at all; his head was about to split open.

From far away, above his head, he heard a high, cold voice say, “Kill the spare.”

A swish­ing noise and a sec­ond voice, which screeched the words to the night: “Ava­da Ke­davra!”

A blast of green light blazed through Har­ry's eye­lids, and he heard some­thing heavy fall to the ground be­side him; the pain in his scar reached such a pitch that he retched, and then it di­min­ished; ter­ri­fied of what he was about to see, he opened his sting­ing eyes.

Cedric was ly­ing spread-​ea­gled on the ground be­side him. He was dead.

For a sec­ond that con­tained an eter­ni­ty, Har­ry stared in­to Cedric's face, at his open gray eyes, blank and ex­pres­sion­less as the win­dows of a de­sert­ed house, at his half-​open mouth, which looked slight­ly sur­prised. And then, be­fore Har­ry's mind had ac­cept­ed what he was see­ing, be­fore he could feel any­thing but numb dis­be­lief, he felt him­self be­ing pulled to his feet.

The short man in the cloak had put down his bun­dle, lit his wand, and was drag­ging Har­ry to­ward the mar­ble head­stone. Har­ry saw the name up­on it flick­er­ing in the wan­dlight be­fore he was forced around and slammed against it.



TOM RID­DLE



The cloaked man was now con­jur­ing tight cords around Har­ry, ty­ing him from neck to an­kles to the head­stone. Har­ry could hear shal­low, fast breath­ing from the depths of the hood; he strug­gled, and the man hit him - hit him with a hand that had a fin­ger miss­ing. And Har­ry re­al­ized who was un­der the hood. It was Worm­tail.

“You!” he gasped.

But Worm­tail, who had fin­ished con­jur­ing the ropes, did not re­ply; he was busy check­ing the tight­ness of the cords, his fin­gers trem­bling un­con­trol­lably, fum­bling over the knots. Once sure that Har­ry was bound so tight­ly to the head­stone that he couldn't move an inch, Worm­tail drew a length of some black ma­te­ri­al from the in­side of his cloak and stuffed it rough­ly in­to Har­ry's mouth; then, with­out a word, he turned from Har­ry and hur­ried away. Har­ry couldn't make a sound, nor could he see where Worm­tail had gone; he couldn't turn his head to see be­yond the head­stone; he could see on­ly what was right in front of him.

Cedric's body was ly­ing some twen­ty feet away. Some way be­yond him, glint­ing in the starlight, lay the Tri­wiz­ard Cup. Har­ry's wand was on the ground at Cedric's feet. The bun­dle of robes that Har­ry had thought was a ba­by was close by, at the foot of the grave. It seemed to be stir­ring fret­ful­ly. Har­ry watched it, and his scar seared with pain again…and he sud­den­ly knew that he didn't want to see what was in those robes…he didn't want that bun­dle opened.…

He could hear nois­es at his feet. He looked down and saw a gi­gan­tic snake slith­er­ing through the grass, cir­cling the head­stone where he was tied. Worm­tail's fast, wheezy breath­ing was grow­ing loud­er again. It sound­ed as though he was forc­ing some­thing heavy across the ground. Then he came back with­in Har­ry's range of vi­sion, and Har­ry saw him push­ing a stone caul­dron to the foot of the grave. It was full of what seemed to be wa­ter - Har­ry could hear it slop­ping around - and it was larg­er than any caul­dron Har­ry had ev­er used; a great stone bel­ly large enough for a full-​grown man to sit in.

The thing in­side the bun­dle of robes on the ground was stir­ring more per­sis­tent­ly, as though it was try­ing to free it­self. Now Worm­tail was busy­ing him­self at the bot­tom of the caul­dron with a wand. Sud­den­ly there were crack­ling names be­neath it. The large snake slith­ered away in­to the dark­ness.

The liq­uid in the caul­dron seemed to heat very fast. The sur­face be­gan not on­ly to bub­ble, but to send out fiery sparks, as though it were on fire. Steam was thick­en­ing, blur­ring the out­line of Worm­tail tend­ing the fire. The move­ments be­neath the robes be­came more ag­itat­ed. And Har­ry heard the high, cold voice again.

“Hur­ry!”

The whole sur­face of the wa­ter was alight with sparks now. It might have been en­crust­ed with di­amonds.

“It is ready. Mas­ter.”

“Now…” said the cold voice.

Worm­tail pulled open the robes on the ground, re­veal­ing what was in­side them, and Har­ry let out a yell that was stran­gled in the wad of ma­te­ri­al block­ing his mouth.

It was as though Worm­tail had flipped over a stone and re­vealed some­thing ug­ly, slimy, and blind - but worse, a hun­dred times worse. The thing Worm­tail had been car­ry­ing had the shape of a crouched hu­man child, ex­cept that Har­ry had nev­er seen any­thing less like a child. It was hair­less and scaly-​look­ing, a dark, raw, red­dish black. Its arms and legs were thin and fee­ble, and its face - no child alive ev­er had a face like that - flat and snake­like, with gleam­ing red eyes.

The thing seemed al­most help­less; it raised its thin arms, put them around Worm­tail's neck, and Worm­tail lift­ed it. As he did so, his hood fell back, and Har­ry saw the look of re­vul­sion on Worm­tail's weak, pale face in the fire­light as he car­ried the crea­ture to the rim of the caul­dron. For one mo­ment, Har­ry saw the evil, flat face il­lu­mi­nat­ed in the sparks danc­ing on the sur­face of the po­tion. And then Worm­tail low­ered the crea­ture in­to the caul­dron; there was a hiss, and it van­ished be­low the sur­face; Har­ry heard its frail body hit the bot­tom with a soft thud.

Let it drown, Har­ry thought, his scar burn­ing al­most past en­durance, please…let it drown.…

Worm­tail was speak­ing. His voice shook; he seemed fright­ened be­yond his wits. He raised his wand, closed his eyes, and spoke to the night.

“Bone of the fa­ther, un­know­ing­ly giv­en, you will re­new your son!”

The sur­face of the grave at Har­ry's feet cracked. Hor­ri­fied, Har­ry watched as a fine trick­le of dust rose in­to the air at Worm­tail's com­mand and fell soft­ly in­to the caul­dron. The di­amond sur­face of the wa­ter broke and hissed; it sent sparks in all di­rec­tions and turned a vivid, poi­sonous-​look­ing blue.

And now Worm­tail was whim­per­ing. He pulled a long, thin, shin­ing sil­ver dag­ger from in­side his cloak. His voice broke in­to pet­ri­fied sobs.

“Flesh - of the ser­vant - w-​will­ing­ly giv­en - you will - re­vive - your mas­ter.”

He stretched his right hand out in front of him - the hand with the miss­ing fin­ger. He gripped the dag­ger very tight­ly in his left hand and swung it up­ward.

Har­ry re­al­ized what Worm­tail was about to do a sec­ond be­fore it hap­pened - he closed his eyes as tight­ly as he could, but he could not block the scream that pierced the night, that went through Har­ry as though he had been stabbed with the dag­ger too. He heard some­thing fall to the ground, heard Worm­tail's an­guished pant­ing, then a sick­en­ing splash, as some­thing was dropped in­to the caul­dron. Har­ry couldn't stand to look…but the po­tion had turned a burn­ing red; the light of it shone through Har­ry's closed eye­lids.…

Worm­tail was gasp­ing and moan­ing with agony. Not un­til Har­ry felt Worm­tail's an­guished breath on his face did he re­al­ize that Worm­tail was right in front of him.

“B-​blood of the en­emy…forcibly tak­en…you will…res­ur­rect your foe.”

Har­ry could do noth­ing to pre­vent it, he was tied too tight­ly….Squint­ing down, strug­gling hope­less­ly at the ropes bind­ing him, he saw the shin­ing sil­ver dag­ger shak­ing in Worm­tail's re­main­ing hand. He felt its point pen­etrate the crook of his right arm and blood seep­ing down the sleeve of his torn robes. Worm­tail, still pant­ing with pain, rum­bled in his pock­et for a glass vial and held it to Har­ry's cut, so that a drib­ble of blood fell in­to it.

He stag­gered back to the caul­dron with Har­ry's blood. He poured it in­side. The liq­uid with­in turned, in­stant­ly, a blind­ing white. Worm­tail, his job done, dropped to his knees be­side the caul­dron, then slumped side­ways and lay on the ground, cradling the bleed­ing stump of his arm, gasp­ing and sob­bing.

The caul­dron was sim­mer­ing, send­ing its di­amond sparks in all di­rec­tions, so blind­ing­ly bright that it turned all else to vel­vety black­ness. Noth­ing hap­pened.…

Let it have drowned. Har­ry thought, let it have gone wrong…

And then, sud­den­ly, the sparks em­anat­ing from the caul­dron were ex­tin­guished. A surge of white steam bil­lowed thick­ly from the caul­dron in­stead, oblit­er­at­ing ev­ery­thing in front of Har­ry, so that he couldn't see Worm­tail or Cedric or any­thing but va­por hang­ing in the air.…It's gone wrong, he thought…it's drowned …please…please let it be dead.…

But then, through the mist in front of him, he saw, with an icy surge of ter­ror, the dark out­line of a man, tall and skele­tal­ly thin, ris­ing slow­ly from in­side the caul­dron.

“Robe me,” said the high, cold voice from be­hind the steam, and Worm­tail, sob­bing and moan­ing, still cradling his mu­ti­lat­ed arm, scram­bled to pick up the black robes from the ground, got to his feet, reached up, and pulled them one-​hand­ed over his mas­ter's head.

The thin man stepped out of the caul­dron, star­ing at Har­ry…and Har­ry stared back in­to the face that had haunt­ed his night­mares for three years. Whiter than a skull, with wide, livid scar­let eyes and a nose that was flat as a snakes with slits for nos­trils…

Lord Volde­mort had risen again.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE


THE DEATH EATERS



V olde­mort looked away from Har­ry and be­gan ex­am­in­ing his own body. His hands were like large, pale spi­ders; his long white fin­gers ca­ressed his own chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils were slits, like a cats, gleamed still more bright­ly through the dark­ness. He held up his hands and flexed the fin­gers, his ex­pres­sion rapt and ex­ul­tant. He took not the slight­est no­tice of Worm­tail, who lay twitch­ing and bleed­ing on the ground, nor of the great snake, which had slith­ered back in­to sight and was cir­cling Har­ry again, hiss­ing. Volde­mort slipped one of those un­nat­ural­ly long-​fin­gered hands in­to a deep pock­et and drew out a wand. He ca­ressed it gen­tly too; and then he raised it, and point­ed it at Worm­tail, who was lift­ed off the ground and thrown against the head­stone where Har­ry was tied; he fell to the foot of it and lay there, crum­pled up and cry­ing. Volde­mort turned his scar­let eyes up­on Har­ry, laugh­ing a high, cold, mirth­less laugh.

Worm­tail's robes were shin­ing with blood now; he had wrapped the stump of his arm in them.

“My Lord…” he choked, “my Lord…you promised…you did promise…”

“Hold out your arm,” said Volde­mort lazi­ly.

“Oh Mas­ter…thank you, Mas­ter…”

He ex­tend­ed the bleed­ing stump, but Volde­mort laughed again.

“The oth­er arm, Worm­tail.”

“Mas­ter, please…please…”

Volde­mort bent down and pulled out Worm­tail's left arm; he forced the sleeve of Worm­tail's robes up past his el­bow, and Har­ry saw some­thing up­on the skin there, some­thing like a vivid red tat­too - a skull with a snake pro­trud­ing from its mouth - the im­age that had ap­peared in the sky at the Quid­ditch World Cup: the Dark Mark. Volde­mort ex­am­ined it care­ful­ly, ig­nor­ing Worm­tail's un­con­trol­lable weep­ing.

“It is back,” he said soft­ly, “they will all have no­ticed it…and now, we shall see…now we shall know…”

He pressed his long white fore­fin­ger to the brand on Worm­tail's arm.

The scar on Har­ry's fore­head seared with a sharp pain again, and Worm­tail let out a fresh howl; Volde­mort re­moved his fin­gers from Worm­tail's mark, and Har­ry saw that it had turned jet black.

A look of cru­el sat­is­fac­tion on his face, Volde­mort straight­ened up, threw back his head, and stared around at the dark grave­yard.

“How many will be brave enough to re­turn when they feel it?” he whis­pered, his gleam­ing red eyes fixed up­on the stars. “And how many will be fool­ish enough to stay away?”

He be­gan to pace up and down be­fore Har­ry and Worm­tail, eyes sweep­ing the grave­yard all the while. Af­ter a minute or so, he looked down at Har­ry again, a cru­el smile twist­ing his snake­like face.

“You stand, Har­ry Pot­ter, up­on the re­mains of my late fa­ther,” he hissed soft­ly. “A Mug­gle and a fool…very like your dear moth­er. But they both had their us­es, did they not? Your moth­er died to de­fend you as a child…and I killed my fa­ther, and see how use­ful he has proved him­self, in death.…”

Volde­mort laughed again. Up and down he paced, look­ing all around him as he walked, and the snake con­tin­ued to cir­cle in the grass.

"You see that house up­on the hill­side, Pot­ter? My fa­ther lived there. My moth­er, a witch who lived here in this vil­lage, fell in love with him. But he aban­doned her when she told him what she was.…He didn't like mag­ic, my fa­ther…

“He left her and re­turned to his Mug­gle par­ents be­fore I was even born. Pot­ter, and she died giv­ing birth to me, leav­ing me to be raised in a Mug­gle or­phan­age…but I vowed to find him…I re­venged my­self up­on him, that fool who gave me his name…Tom Rid­dle.…”

Still he paced, his red eyes dart­ing from grave to grave.

“Lis­ten to me, re­liv­ing fam­ily his­to­ry…” he said qui­et­ly, “why, I am grow­ing quite sen­ti­men­tal.…But look, Har­ry! My true fam­ily re­turns.…”

The air was sud­den­ly full of the swish­ing of cloaks. Be­tween graves, be­hind the yew tree, in ev­ery shad­owy space, wiz­ards were Ap­pa­rat­ing. All of them were hood­ed and masked. And one by one they moved for­ward…slow­ly, cau­tious­ly, as though they could hard­ly be­lieve their eyes Volde­mort stood in si­lence, wait­ing for them. Then one of the Death Eaters fell to his knees, crawled to­ward Volde­mort and kissed the hem of his black robes.

“Mas­ter…Mas­ter…” he mur­mured.

The Death Eaters be­hind him did the same; each of them ap­proach­ing Volde­mort on his knees and kiss­ing his robes, be­fore back­ing away and stand­ing up, form­ing a silent cir­cle, which en­closed Tom Rid­dle's grave, Har­ry, Volde­mort, and the sob­bing and twitch­ing heap that was Worm­tail. Yet they left gaps in the cir­cle, as though wait­ing for more peo­ple. Volde­mort, how­ev­er, did not seem to ex­pect more. He looked around at the hood­ed faces, and though there was no wind rustling seemed to run around the cir­cle, as though it had shiv­ered.

“Wel­come, Death Eaters,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly. “Thir­teen years…thir­teen years since last we met. Yet you an­swer my call as though it were yes­ter­day, we are still unit­ed un­der the Dark Mark, then! Or are we?”

He put back his ter­ri­ble face and sniffed, his slit-​like nos­trils widen­ing.

“I smell guilt,” he said. "There is a stench or guilt up­on the air.

A sec­ond shiv­er ran around the cir­cle, as though each mem­ber of it longed, but did not dare to step back from him.

“I see you all, whole and healthy, with your pow­ers in­tact - such prompt ap­pear­ances! and I ask my­self…why did this band of wiz­ards nev­er come to the aid of their mas­ter, to whom they swore eter­nal loy­al­ty?”

No one spoke. No one moved ex­cept Worm­tail, who was up­on the ground, still sob­bing over his bleed­ing arm.

“And I an­swer my­self,” whis­pered Volde­mort, "they must have be­lieved me bro­ken, they thought I was gone. They slipped back among my en­emies, and they plead­ed in­no­cence, and ig­no­rance, and be­witch­ment .…

"And then I ask my­self, but how could they have be­lieved I would not rise again? They, who knew the steps I took, long ago, to guard my­self against mor­tal death? They, who had seen proofs of the im­men­si­ty of my pow­er in the times when I was might­ier than any wiz­ard liv­ing?

“And I an­swer my­self, per­haps they be­lieved a still greater pow­er could ex­ist, one that could van­quish even Lord Volde­mort…per­haps they now pay al­le­giance to an­oth­er…per­haps that cham­pi­on of com­mon­ers, of Mud­bloods and Mug­gles, Al­bus Dum­ble­dore?”

At the men­tion of Dum­ble­dore's name, the mem­bers of the cir­cle stirred, and some mut­tered and shook their heads. Volde­mort ig­nored them.

“It is a dis­ap­point­ment to me…I con­fess my­self dis­ap­point­ed.…”

One of the men sud­den­ly flung him­self for­ward, break­ing the cir­cle. Trem­bling from head to foot, he col­lapsed at Volde­mort's feet.

“Mas­ter!” he shrieked, “Mas­ter, for­give me! For­give us all!”

Volde­mort be­gan to laugh. He raised his wand.

“Cru­cio!”

The Death Eater on the ground writhed and shrieked; Har­ry was sure the sound must car­ry to the hous­es around.…Let the po­lice come, he thought des­per­ate­ly…any­one…any­thing…

Volde­mort raised his wand. The tor­tured Death Eater lay flat up­on the ground, gasp­ing.

“Get up, Av­ery,” said Volde­mort soft­ly. “Stand up. You ask for for­give­ness? I do not for­give. I do not for­get. Thir­teen long years…I want thir­teen years' re­pay­ment be­fore I for­give you. Worm­tail here has paid some of his debt al­ready, have you not, Worm­tail?”

He looked down at Worm­tail, who con­tin­ued to sob.

“You re­turned to me, not out of loy­al­ty, but out of fear of your old friends. You de­serve this pain, Worm­tail. You know that, don't you?”

“Yes, Mas­ter,” moaned Worm­tail, “please. Mas­ter…please…”

“Yet you helped re­turn me to my body,” said Volde­mort cool­ly, watch­ing Worm­tail sob on the ground. “Worth­less and traitorous as you are, you helped me…and Lord Volde­mort re­wards his helpers….”

Volde­mort raised his wand again and whirled it through the air. A streak of what looked like molten sil­ver hung shin­ing in the wand's wake. Mo­men­tar­ily shape­less, it writhed and then formed it­self in­to a gleam­ing repli­ca of a hu­man hand, bright as moon­light, which soared down­ward and fixed it­self up­on Worm­tail's bleed­ing wrist.

Worm­tail's sob­bing stopped abrupt­ly. His breath­ing harsh and ragged, he raised his head and stared in dis­be­lief at the sil­ver hand, now at­tached seam­less­ly to his arm, as though he were wear­ing a daz­zling glove. He flexed the shin­ing fin­gers, then, trem­bling, picked up a small twig on the ground and crushed it in­to pow­der.

“My Lord,” he whis­pered. “Mas­ter…it is beau­ti­ful…thank you…thank you.…”

He scram­bled for­ward on his knees and kissed the hem of Volde­mort's robes.

“May your loy­al­ty nev­er wa­ver again, Worm­tail,” said Volde­mort.

“No, my Lord…nev­er, my Lord…”

Worm­tail stood up and took his place in the cir­cle, star­ing at his pow­er­ful new hand, his face still shin­ing with tears. Volde­mort now ap­proached the man on Worm­tail's right.

“Lu­cius, my slip­pery friend,” he whis­pered, halt­ing be­fore him. “I am told that you have not re­nounced the old ways, though to the world you present a re­spectable face. You are still ready to take the lead in a spot of Mug­gle-​tor­ture, I be­lieve? Yet you nev­er tried to find me, Lu­cius.…Your ex­ploits at the Quid­ditch World Cup were fun, I dare­say…but might not your en­er­gies have been bet­ter di­rect­ed to­ward find­ing and aid­ing your mas­ter?”

“My Lord, I was con­stant­ly on the alert,” came Lu­cius Mal­foy's voice swift­ly from be­neath the hood. “Had there been any sign from you, any whis­per of your where­abouts, I would have been at your side im­me­di­ate­ly, noth­ing could have pre­vent­ed me -”

“And yet you ran from my Mark, when a faith­ful Death Eater sent it in­to the sky last sum­mer?” said Volde­mort lazi­ly, and Mr. Mal­foy stopped talk­ing abrupt­ly. “Yes, I know all about that, Lu­cius.…You have dis­ap­point­ed me.…I ex­pect more faith­ful ser­vice in the fu­ture.”

“Of course, my Lord, of course.…You are mer­ci­ful, thank you.…”

Volde­mort moved on, and stopped, star­ing at the space - large enough for two peo­ple - that sep­arat­ed Mal­foy and the next man.

“The Lestranges should stand here,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly. “But they are en­tombed in Azk­aban. They were faith­ful. They went to Azk­aban rather than re­nounce me.…When Azk­aban is bro­ken open, the Lestranges will be hon­ored be­yond their dreams. The de­men­tors will join us…they are our nat­ural al­lies…we will re­call the ban­ished gi­ants…I shall have all my de­vot­ed ser­vants re­turned to me, and an army of crea­tures whom all fear.…”

He walked on. Some of the Death Eaters he passed in si­lence, but he paused be­fore oth­ers and spoke to them.

“Mac­nair…de­stroy­ing dan­ger­ous beasts for the Min­istry of Mag­ic now, Worm­tail tells me? You shall have bet­ter vic­tims than that soon, Mac­nair. Lord Volde­mort will pro­vide.…”

“Thank you, Mas­ter…thank you,” mur­mured Mac­nair.

“And here” - Volde­mort moved on to the two largest hood­ed fig­ures - “we have Crabbe…you will do bet­ter this time, will you not, Crabbe? And you, Goyle?”

They bowed clum­si­ly, mut­ter­ing dul­ly.

“Yes, Mas­ter…”

“We will, Mas­ter.…”

“The same goes for you, Nott,” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly as he walked past a stooped fig­ure in Mr. Goyles shad­ow.

“My Lord, I pros­trate my­self be­fore you, I am your most faith­ful -”

“That will do,” said Volde­mort.

He had reached the largest gap of all, and he stood sur­vey­ing it with his blank, red eyes, as though he could see peo­ple stand­ing there.

“And here we have six miss­ing Death Eaters…three dead in my ser­vice. One, too cow­ard­ly to re­turn…he will pay. One, who I be­lieve has left me for­ev­er…he will be killed, of course…and one, who re­mains my most faith­ful ser­vant, and who has al­ready reen­tered my ser­vice.”

The Death Eaters stirred, and Har­ry saw their eyes dart side­ways at one an­oth­er through their masks.

"He is at Hog­warts, that faith­ful ser­vant, and it was through his ef­forts that our young friend ar­rived here tonight.…

“Yes,” said Volde­mort, a grin curl­ing his li­pless mouth as the eyes of the cir­cle flashed in Har­ry's di­rec­tion. “Har­ry Pot­ter has kind­ly joined us for my re­birthing par­ty. One might go so far as to call him my guest of hon­or.”

There was a si­lence. Then the Death Eater to the right of Worm­tail stepped for­ward, and Lu­cius Mal­foy's voice spoke from un­der the mask.

“Mas­ter, we crave to know…we beg you to tell us…how you have achieved this…this mir­acle…how you man­aged to re­turn to us.…”

“Ah, what a sto­ry it is, Lu­cius,” said Volde­mort. “And it be­gins - and ends - with my young friend here.”

He walked lazi­ly over to stand next to Har­ry, so that the eyes of the whole cir­cle were up­on the two of them. The snake con­tin­ued to cir­cle.

“You know, of course, that they have called this boy my down­fall?” Volde­mort said soft­ly, his red eyes up­on Har­ry, whose scar be­gan to burn so fierce­ly that he al­most screamed in agony. “You all know that on the night I lost my pow­ers and my body, I tried to kill him. His moth­er died in the at­tempt to save him - and un­wit­ting­ly pro­vid­ed him with a pro­tec­tion I ad­mit I had not fore­seen.…I could not touch the boy.”

Volde­mort raised one of his long white fin­gers and put it very close to Har­ry's cheek.

“His moth­er left up­on him the traces oth­er sac­ri­fice.…This is old mag­ic, I should have re­mem­bered it, I was fool­ish to over­look it…but no mat­ter. I can touch him now.”

Har­ry felt the cold tip of the long white fin­ger touch him, and thought his head would burst with the pain. Volde­mort laughed soft­ly in his ear, then took the fin­ger away and con­tin­ued ad­dress­ing the Death Eaters.

"I mis­cal­cu­lat­ed, my friends, I ad­mit it. My curse was de­flect­ed by the wom­an's fool­ish sac­ri­fice, and it re­bound­ed up­on my­self. Aaah…pain be­yond pain, my friends; noth­ing could have pre­pared me for it. I was ripped from my body, I was less than spir­it, less than the mean­est ghost…but still, I was alive. What I was, even I do not know…I, who have gone fur­ther than any­body along the path that leads to im­mor­tal­ity. You know my goal - to con­quer death. And now, I was test­ed, and it ap­peared that one or more of my ex­per­iments had worked…for I had not been killed, though the curse should have done it. Nev­er­the­less, I was as pow­er­less as the weak­est crea­ture alive, and with­out the means to help my­self…for I had no body, and ev­ery spell that might have helped me re­quired the use of a wand.…

“I re­mem­ber on­ly forc­ing my­self, sleep­less­ly, end­less­ly, sec­ond by sec­ond, to ex­ist.…I set­tled in a far­away place, in a for­est, and I wait­ed.…Sure­ly, one of my faith­ful Death Eaters would try and find me…one of them would come and per­form the mag­ic I could not, to re­store me to a body…, but I wait­ed in vain.…”

The shiv­er ran once more around the cir­cle of lis­ten­ing Death Eaters. Volde­mort let the si­lence spi­ral hor­ri­bly be­fore con­tin­uing.

"On­ly one pow­er re­mained to me. I could pos­sess the bod­ies of oth­ers. But I dared not go where oth­er hu­mans were plen­ti­ful, for I knew that the Au­rors were still abroad and search­ing for me.

I some­times in­hab­it­ed an­imals - snakes, of course, be­ing my pref­er­ence - but I was lit­tle bet­ter off in­side them than as pure spir­it, for their bod­ies were ill adapt­ed to per­form mag­ic…and my pos­ses­sion of them short­ened their lives; none of them last­ed long.…

“Then…four years ago…the means for my re­turn seemed as­sured. A wiz­ard - young, fool­ish, and gullible - wan­dered across my path in the for­est I had made my home. Oh, he seemed the very chance I had been dream­ing of…for he was a teach­er at Dum­ble­dore's school…he was easy to bend to my will…he brought me back to this coun­try, and af­ter a while, I took pos­ses­sion of his body, to su­per­vise him close­ly as he car­ried out my or­ders. But my plan failed. I did not man­age to steal the Sor­cer­er's Stone. I was not to be as­sured im­mor­tal life. I was thwart­ed…thwart­ed, once again, by Har­ry Pot­ter.…”

Si­lence once more; noth­ing was stir­ring, not even the leaves on the yew tree. The Death Eaters were quite mo­tion­less, the glit­ter­ing eyes in their masks fixed up­on Volde­mort, and up­on Har­ry.

“The ser­vant died when I left his body, and I was left as weak as ev­er I had been,” Volde­mort con­tin­ued. “I re­turned to my hid­ing place far away, and I will not pre­tend to you that I didn't then fear that I might nev­er re­gain my pow­ers.…Yes, that was per­haps my dark­est hour…I could not hope that I would be sent an­oth­er wiz­ard to pos­sess…and I had giv­en up hope, now, that any of my Death Eaters cared what had be­come of me.…”

One or two of the masked wiz­ards in the cir­cle moved un­com­fort­ably, but Volde­mort took no no­tice.

"And then, not even a year ago, when I had al­most aban­doned hope, it hap­pened at last…a ser­vant re­turned to me. Worm­tail here, who had faked his own death to es­cape jus­tice, was driv­en out of hid­ing by those he had once count­ed friends, and de­cid­ed to re­turn to his mas­ter. He sought me in the coun­try where it had long been ru­mored I was hid­ing…helped, of course, by the rats he met along the way. Worm­tail has a cu­ri­ous affin­ity with rats, do you not, Worm­tail? His filthy lit­tle friends told him there was a place, deep in an Al­ba­ni­an for­est, that they avoid­ed, where small an­imals like them­selves had met their deaths by a dark shad­ow that pos­sessed them.…

"But his jour­ney back to me was not smooth, was it, Worm­tail? For, hun­gry one night, on the edge of the very for­est where he had hoped to find me, he fool­ish­ly stopped at an inn for some food…and who should he meet there, but one Bertha Jorkins, a witch from the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

"Now see the way that fate fa­vors Lord Volde­mort. This might have been the end of Worm­tail, and of my last hope for re­gen­er­ation. But Worm­tail - dis­play­ing a pres­ence of mind I would nev­er have ex­pect­ed from him - con­vinced Bertha Jorkins to ac­com­pa­ny him on a night­time stroll. He over­pow­ered her…he brought her to me. And Bertha Jorkins, who might have ru­ined all, proved in­stead to be a gift be­yond my wildest dreams…for - with a lit­tle per­sua­sion - she be­came a ver­ita­ble mine of in­for­ma­tion.

“She told me that the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment would be played at Hog­warts this year. She told me that she knew of a faith­ful Death Eater who would be on­ly too will­ing to help me, if I could on­ly con­tact him. She told me many things…but the means I used to break the Mem­ory Charm up­on her were pow­er­ful, and when I had ex­tract­ed all use­ful in­for­ma­tion from her, her mind and body were both dam­aged be­yond re­pair. She had now served her pur­pose. I could not pos­sess her. I dis­posed of her.”

Volde­mort smiled his ter­ri­ble smile, his red eyes blank and piti­less.

“Worm­tail's body, of course, was ill adapt­ed for pos­ses­sion, as all as­sumed him dead, and would at­tract far too much at­ten­tion if no­ticed. How­ev­er, he was the able-​bod­ied ser­vant I need­ed, and, poor wiz­ard though he is, Worm­tail was able to fol­low the in­struc­tions I gave him, which would re­turn me to a rudi­men­ta­ry, weak body of my own, a body I would be able to in­hab­it while await­ing the es­sen­tial in­gre­di­ents for true re­birth…a spell or two of my own in­ven­tion…a lit­tle help from my dear Nagi­ni,” Volde­mort's red eyes fell up­on the con­tin­ual­ly cir­cling snake, "a po­tion con­coct­ed from uni­corn blood, and the snake ven­om Nagi­ni pro­vid­ed…I was soon re­turned to an al­most hu­man form, and strong enough to trav­el.

"There was no hope of steal­ing the Sor­cer­er's Stone any­more, for I knew that Dum­ble­dore would have seen to it that it was de­stroyed. But I was will­ing to em­brace mor­tal life again, be­fore chas­ing im­mor­tal­ity. I set my sights low­er…I would set­tle for my old body back again, and my old strength.

"I knew that to achieve this - it is an old piece of Dark Mag­ic, the po­tion that re­vived me tonight - I would need three pow­er­ful in­gre­di­ents. Well, one of them was al­ready at hand, was it not, Worm­tail? Flesh giv­en by a ser­vant.…

"My fa­ther's bone, nat­ural­ly, meant that we would have to come here, where he was buried. But the blood of a foe…Worm­tail would have had me use any wiz­ard, would you not, Worm­tail? Any wiz­ard who had hat­ed me…as so many of them still do. But I knew the one I must use, if I was to rise again, more pow­er­ful than I had been when I had fall­en. I want­ed Har­ry Pot­ters blood. I want­ed the blood of the one who had stripped me of pow­er thir­teen years ago…for the lin­ger­ing pro­tec­tion his moth­er once gave him would then re­side in my veins too.…

"But how to get at Har­ry Pot­ter? For he has been bet­ter pro­tect­ed than I think even he knows, pro­tect­ed in ways de­vised by Dum­ble­dore long ago, when it fell to him to ar­range the boy's fu­ture. Dum­ble­dore in­voked an an­cient mag­ic, to en­sure the boy's pro­tec­tion as long as he is in his re­la­tions' care. Not even I can touch him there.…Then, of course, there was the Quid­ditch World Cup.…I thought his pro­tec­tion might be weak­er there, away from his re­la­tions and Dum­ble­dore, but I was not yet strong enough to at­tempt kid­nap in the midst of a horde of Min­istry wiz­ards. And then, the boy would re­turn to Hog­warts, where he is un­der the crooked nose of that Mug­gle-​lov­ing fool from morn­ing un­til night. So how could I take him?

“Why…by us­ing Bertha Jorkins's in­for­ma­tion, of course. Use my one faith­ful Death Eater, sta­tioned at Hog­warts, to en­sure that the boy's name was en­tered in­to the Gob­let of Fire. Use my Death Eater to en­sure that the boy won the tour­na­ment - that he touched the Tri­wiz­ard Cup first - the cup which my Death Eater had turned in­to a Portkey, which would bring him here, be­yond the reach of Dum­ble­dore's help and pro­tec­tion, and in­to my wait­ing arms. And here he is…the boy you all be­lieved had been my down­fall.…”

Volde­mort moved slow­ly for­ward and turned to face Har­ry. He raised his wand.

“Cru­cio!”

It was pain be­yond any­thing Har­ry had ev­er ex­pe­ri­enced; his very bones were on fire; his head was sure­ly split­ting along his scar; his eyes were rolling mad­ly in his head; he want­ed it to end…to black out…to die…

And then it was gone. He was hang­ing limply in the ropes bind­ing him to the head­stone of Volde­mort's fa­ther, look­ing up in­to those bright red eyes through a kind of mist. The night was ring­ing with the sound of the Death Eaters' laugh­ter.

“You see, I think, how fool­ish it was to sup­pose that this boy could ev­er have been stronger than me,” said Volde­mort. “But I want there to be no mis­take in any­body's mind. Har­ry Pot­ter es­caped me by a lucky chance. And I am now go­ing to prove my pow­er by killing him, here and now, in front of you all, when there is no Dum­ble­dore to help him, and no moth­er to die for him. I will give him his chance. He will be al­lowed to fight, and you will be left in no doubt which of us is the stronger. Just a lit­tle longer, Nagi­ni,” he whis­pered, and the snake glid­ed away through the grass to where the Death Eaters stood watch­ing.

“Now un­tie him, Worm­tail, and give him back his wand.”





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR


PRI­ORI IN­CAN­TATEM

W orm­tail ap­proached Har­ry, who scram­bled to find his feet, to sup­port his own weight be­fore the ropes were un­tied. Worm­tail raised his new sil­ver hand, pulled out the wad of ma­te­ri­al gag­ging Har­ry, and then, with one swipe, cut through the bonds ty­ing Har­ry to the grave­stone.

There was a split sec­ond, per­haps, when Har­ry might have con­sid­ered run­ning for it, but his in­jured leg shook un­der him as he stood on the over­grown grave, as the Death Eaters closed ranks, form­ing a tighter cir­cle around him and Volde­mort, so that the gaps where the miss­ing Death Eaters should have stood were filled. Worm­tail walked out of the cir­cle to the place where Cedric's body lay and re­turned with Har­ry's wand, which he thrust rough­ly in­to Har­ry's hand with­out look­ing at him. Then Worm­tail re­sumed his place in the cir­cle of watch­ing Death Eaters.

“You have been taught how to du­el. Har­ry Pot­ter?” said Volde­mort soft­ly, his red eyes glint­ing through the dark­ness.

At these words Har­ry re­mem­bered, as though from a for­mer life, the du­el­ing club at Hog­warts he had at­tend­ed briefly two years ago.…All he had learned there was the Dis­arm­ing Spell, “Ex­pel­liar­mus”…and what use would it be to de­prive Volde­mort of his wand, even if he could, when he was sur­round­ed by Death Eaters, out­num­bered by at least thir­ty to one? He had nev­er learned any­thing that could pos­si­bly fit him for this. He knew he was fac­ing the thing against which Moody had al­ways warned…the un­block­able Ava­da Ke­davra curse - and Volde­mort was right - his moth­er was not here to die for him this time.…He was quite un­pro­tect­ed.…

“We bow to each oth­er. Har­ry,” said Volde­mort, bend­ing a lit­tle, but keep­ing his snake­like face up­turned to Har­ry. “Come, the niceties must be ob­served.…Dum­ble­dore would like you to show man­ners.…Bow to death, Har­ry.…”

The Death Eaters were laugh­ing again. Volde­mort's li­pless mouth was smil­ing. Har­ry did not bow. He was not go­ing to let Volde­mort play with him be­fore killing him…he was not go­ing to give him that sat­is­fac­tion.…

“I said, bow,” Volde­mort said, rais­ing his wand - and Har­ry felt his spine curve as though a huge, in­vis­ible hand were bend­ing him ruth­less­ly for­ward, and the Death Eaters laughed hard­er than ev­er.

“Very good,” said Volde­mort soft­ly, and as he raised his wand the pres­sure bear­ing down up­on Har­ry lift­ed too. "And now you face me, like a man…straight-​backed and proud, the way your fa­ther died.…

“And now - we du­el.”

Volde­mort raised his wand, and be­fore Har­ry could do any­thing to de­fend him­self, be­fore he could even move, he had been hit again by the Cru­cia­tus Curse. The pain was so in­tense, so all-​con­sum­ing, that he no longer knew where he was.…White-​hot knives were pierc­ing ev­ery inch of his skin, his head was sure­ly go­ing to burst with pain, he was scream­ing more loud­ly than he'd ev­er screamed in his life -

And then it stopped. Har­ry rolled over and scram­bled to his feet; he was shak­ing as un­con­trol­lably as Worm­tail had done when his hand had been cut off; he stag­gered side­ways in­to the wall of watch­ing Death Eaters, and they pushed him away, back to­ward Volde­mort.

“A lit­tle break,” said Volde­mort, the slit-​like nos­trils di­lat­ing with ex­cite­ment, “a lit­tle pause…That hurt, didn't it. Har­ry? You don't want me to do that again, do you?”

Har­ry didn't an­swer. He was go­ing to die like Cedric, those piti­less red eyes were telling him so…he was go­ing to die, and there was noth­ing he could do about it…but he wasn't go­ing to play along. He wasn't go­ing to obey Volde­mort…he wasn't go­ing to beg.…

“I asked you whether you want me to do that again,” said Volde­mort soft­ly. “An­swer me! Im­pe­rio!”

And Har­ry felt, for the third time in his life, the sen­sa­tion that his mind had been wiped of all thought.…Ah, it was bliss, not to think, it was as though he were float­ing, dream­ing…just an­swer no…say no…just an­swer no.…

I will not, said a stronger voice, in the back of his head, I won't an­swer.…

Just an­swer no.…

I won't do it, I won't say it.…

Just an­swer no.…

“I WON'T!”

And these words burst from Har­ry's mouth; they echoed through the grave­yard, and the dream state was lift­ed as sud­den­ly as though cold wa­ter had been thrown over him - back rushed the aches that the Cru­cia­tus Curse had left all over his body - back rushed the re­al­iza­tion of where he was, and what he was fac­ing.…

“You won't?” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly, and the Death Eaters were not laugh­ing now. “You won't say no? Har­ry, obe­di­ence is a virtue I need to teach you be­fore you die.…Per­haps an­oth­er lit­tle dose of pain?”

Volde­mort raised his wand, but this time Har­ry was ready; with the re­flex­es born of his Quid­ditch train­ing, he flung him­self side­ways on­to the ground; he rolled be­hind the mar­ble head­stone of Volde­mort's fa­ther, and he heard it crack as the curse missed him.

“We are not play­ing hide-​and-​seek, Har­ry,” said Volde­mort's soft, cold voice, draw­ing near­er, as the Death Eaters laughed. “You can­not hide from me. Does this mean you are tired of our du­el? Does this mean that you would pre­fer me to fin­ish it now, Har­ry? Come out, Har­ry…come out and play, then…it will be quick…it might even be pain­less…I would not know…I have nev­er died.…”

Har­ry crouched be­hind the head­stone and knew the end had come. There was no hope…no help to be had. And as he heard Volde­mort draw near­er still, he knew one thing on­ly, and it was be­yond fear or rea­son: He was not go­ing to die crouch­ing here like a child play­ing hide-​and-​seek; he was not go­ing to die kneel­ing at Volde­mort's feet…he was go­ing to die up­right like his fa­ther, and he was go­ing to die try­ing to de­fend him­self, even if no de­fense was pos­si­ble.…

Be­fore Volde­mort could stick his snake­like face around the head­stone. Har­ry stood up…he gripped his wand tight­ly in his hand, thrust it out in front of him, and threw him­self around the head­stone, fac­ing Volde­mort.

Volde­mort was ready. As Har­ry shout­ed, “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” Volde­mort cried, “Ava­da Ke­davra!”

A jet of green light is­sued from Volde­mort's wand just as a jet of red light blast­ed from Har­ry's - they met in midair - and sud­den­ly Har­ry's wand was vi­brat­ing as though an elec­tric charge were surg­ing through it; his hand seized up around it; he couldn't have re­leased it if he'd want­ed to - and a nar­row beam of light con­nect­ed the two wands, nei­ther red nor green, but bright, deep gold. Har­ry, fol­low­ing the beam with his as­ton­ished gaze, saw that Volde­mort's long white fin­gers too were grip­ping a wand that was shak­ing and vi­brat­ing.

And then - noth­ing could have pre­pared Har­ry for this - he felt his feet lift from the ground. He and Volde­mort were both be­ing raised in­to the air, their wands still con­nect­ed by that thread of shim­mer­ing gold­en light. They glid­ed away from the tomb­stone of Volde­mort's fa­ther and then came to rest on a patch of ground that was clear and free of graves.…The Death Eaters were shout­ing; they were ask­ing Volde­mort for in­struc­tions; they were clos­ing in, re­form­ing the cir­cle around Har­ry and Volde­mort, the snake slith­er­ing at their heels, some of them draw­ing their wands -

The gold­en thread con­nect­ing Har­ry and Volde­mort splin­tered; though the wands re­mained con­nect­ed, a thou­sand more beams arced high over Har­ry and Volde­mort, criss­cross­ing all around them, un­til they were en­closed in a gold­en, dome-​shaped web, a cage of light, be­yond which the Death Eaters cir­cled like jack­als, their cries strange­ly muf­fled now.…

“Do noth­ing!” Volde­mort shrieked to the Death Eaters, and Har­ry saw his red eyes wide with as­ton­ish­ment at what was hap­pen­ing, saw him fight­ing to break the thread of light still con­nect­ing his wand with Har­ry's; Har­ry held on­to his wand more tight­ly, with both hands, and the gold­en thread re­mained un­bro­ken. “Do noth­ing un­less I com­mand you!” Volde­mort shout­ed to the Death Eaters.

And then an un­earth­ly and beau­ti­ful sound filled the air.…It was com­ing from ev­ery thread of the light-​spun web vi­brat­ing around Har­ry and Volde­mort. It was a sound Har­ry rec­og­nized, though he had heard it on­ly once be­fore in his life: phoenix song.

It was the sound of hope to Har­ry…the most beau­ti­ful and wel­come thing he had ev­er heard in his life.…He felt as though the song were in­side him in­stead of just around him.…It was the sound he con­nect­ed with Dum­ble­dore, and it was al­most as though a friend were speak­ing in his ear.…

Don't break the con­nec­tion.

I know. Har­ry told the mu­sic, I know I mustn't…but no soon­er had he thought it, than the thing be­came much hard­er to do. His wand be­gan to vi­brate more pow­er­ful­ly than ev­er…and now the beam be­tween him and Volde­mort changed too…it was as though large beads of light were slid­ing up and down the thread con­nect­ing the wands - Har­ry felt his wand give a shud­der un­der his hand as the light beads be­gan to slide slow­ly and steadi­ly his way.…The di­rec­tion of the beams move­ment was now to­ward him, from Volde­mort, and he felt his wand shud­der an­gri­ly.…

As the clos­est bead of light moved near­er to Har­ry's wand tip, the wood be­neath his fin­gers grew so hot he feared it would burst in­to flame. The clos­er that bead moved, the hard­er Har­ry's wand vi­brat­ed; he was sure his wand would not sur­vive con­tact with it; it felt as though it was about to shat­ter un­der his fin­gers -

He con­cen­trat­ed ev­ery last par­ti­cle of his mind up­on forc­ing the bead back to­ward Volde­mort, his ears full of phoenix song, his eyes fu­ri­ous, fixed…and slow­ly, very slow­ly, the beads quiv­ered to a halt, and then, just as slow­ly, they be­gan to move the oth­er way…and it was Volde­mort's wand that was vi­brat­ing ex­tra-​hard now…Volde­mort who looked as­ton­ished, and al­most fear­ful.…

One of the beads of light was quiv­er­ing, inch­es from the tip of Volde­mort's wand. Har­ry didn't un­der­stand why he was do­ing it, didn't know what it might achieve…but he now con­cen­trat­ed as he had nev­er done in his life on forc­ing that bead of light right back in­to Volde­mort's wand…and slow­ly…very slow­ly…it moved along the gold­en thread…it trem­bled for a mo­ment…and then it con­nect­ed.…

At once, Volde­mort's wand be­gan to emit echo­ing screams of pain…then - Volde­mort's red eyes widened with shock - a dense, smoky hand flew out of the tip of it and van­ished…the ghost of the hand he had made Worm­tail…more shouts of pain…and then some­thing much larg­er be­gan to blos­som from Volde­mort's wand tip, a great, gray­ish some­thing, that looked as though it were made of the solidest, dens­est smoke.…It was a head…now a chest and arms…the tor­so of Cedric Dig­gory.

If ev­er Har­ry might have re­leased his wand from shock, it would have been then, but in­stinct kept him clutch­ing his wand tight­ly, so that the thread of gold­en light re­mained un­bro­ken, even though the thick gray ghost of Cedric Dig­gory (was it a ghost? it looked so sol­id) emerged in its en­tire­ty from the end of Volde­mort's wand, as though it were squeez­ing it­self out of a very nar­row tun­nel…and this shade of Cedric stood up, and looked up and down the gold­en thread of light, and spoke.

“Hold on. Har­ry,” it said.

Its voice was dis­tant and echo­ing. Har­ry looked at Volde­mort…his wide red eyes were still shocked…he had no more ex­pect­ed this than Har­ry had…and, very dim­ly. Har­ry heard the fright­ened yells of the Death Eaters, prowl­ing around the edges of the gold­en dome.

More screams of pain from the wand…and then some­thing else emerged from its tip…the dense shad­ow of a sec­ond head, quick­ly fol­lowed by arms and tor­so…an old man Har­ry had seen on­ly in a dream was now push­ing him­self out of the end of the wand just as Cedric had done…and his ghost, or his shad­ow, or what­ev­er it was, fell next to Cedric's, and sur­veyed Har­ry and Volde­mort, and the gold­en web, and the con­nect­ed wands, with mild sur­prise, lean­ing on his walk­ing stick.…

“He was a re­al wiz­ard, then?” the old man said, his eyes on Volde­mort. “Killed me, that one did.…You fight him, boy.…”

But al­ready, yet an­oth­er head was emerg­ing…and this head, gray as a smoky stat­ue, was a wom­an's.…Har­ry, both arms shak­ing now as he fought to keep his wand still, saw her drop to the ground and straight­en up like the oth­ers, star­ing.…

The shad­ow of Bertha Jorkins sur­veyed the bat­tle be­fore her with wide eyes.

“Don't let go, now!” she cried, and her voice echoed like Cedric's as though from very far away. “Don't let him get you, Har­ry - don't let go!”

She and the oth­er two shad­owy fig­ures be­gan to pace around the in­ner walls of the gold­en web, while the Death Eaters flit­ted around the out­side of it…and Volde­mort's dead vic­tims whis­pered as they cir­cled the du­el­ers, whis­pered words of en­cour­age­ment to Har­ry, and hissed words Har­ry couldn't hear to Volde­mort.

And now an­oth­er head was emerg­ing from the tip of Volde­mort's wand…and Har­ry knew when he saw it who it would be…he knew, as though he had ex­pect­ed it from the mo­ment when Cedric had ap­peared from the wand…knew, be­cause the man ap­pear­ing was the one he'd thought of more than any oth­er tonight.…

The smoky shad­ow of a tall man with un­tidy hair fell to the ground as Bertha had done, straight­ened up, and looked at him…and Har­ry, his arms shak­ing mad­ly now, looked back in­to the ghost­ly face of his fa­ther.

“Your moth­er's com­ing…” he said qui­et­ly. “She wants to see you…it will be all right…hold on.…”

And she came…first her head, then her body…a young wom­an with long hair, the smoky, shad­owy form of Lily Pot­ter blos­somed from the end of Volde­mort's wand, fell to the ground, and straight­ened like her hus­band. She walked close to Har­ry, look­ing down at him, and she spoke in the same dis­tant, echo­ing voice as the oth­ers, but qui­et­ly, so that Volde­mort, his face now livid with fear as his vic­tims prowled around him, could not hear….

“When the con­nec­tion is bro­ken, we will linger for on­ly mo­ments…but we will give you time…you must get to the Portkey, it will re­turn you to Hog­warts…do you un­der­stand, Har­ry?”

“Yes,” Har­ry gasped, fight­ing now to keep a hold on his wand, which was slip­ping and slid­ing be­neath his fin­gers.

“Har­ry…” whis­pered the fig­ure of Cedric, “take my body back, will you? Take my body back to my par­ents,…”

“I will,” said Har­ry, his face screwed up with the ef­fort of hold­ing the wand.

“Do it now,” whis­pered his fa­ther's voice, “be ready to run…do it now.…”

“NOW!” Har­ry yelled; he didn't think he could have held on for an­oth­er mo­ment any­way - he pulled his wand up­ward with an almighty wrench, and the gold­en thread broke; the cage of light van­ished, the phoenix song died - but the shad­owy fig­ures of Volde­mort's vic­tims did not dis­ap­pear - they were clos­ing in up­on Volde­mort, shield­ing Har­ry from his gaze -

And Har­ry ran as he had nev­er run in his life, knock­ing two stunned Death Eaters aside as he passed; he zigzagged be­hind head­stones, feel­ing their curs­es fol­low­ing him, hear­ing them hit the head­stones - he was dodg­ing curs­es and graves, pelt­ing to­ward Cedric's body, no longer aware of the pain in his leg, his whole be­ing con­cen­trat­ed on what he had to do -

“Stun him!” he heard Volde­mort scream.

Ten feet from Cedric, Har­ry dived be­hind a mar­ble an­gel to avoid the jets of red light and saw the tip of its wing shat­ter as the spells hit it. Grip­ping his wand more tight­ly, he dashed out from be­hind the an­gel -

“Im­ped­imen­ta!” he bel­lowed, point­ing his wand wild­ly over his shoul­der at the Death Eaters run­ning at him.

From a muf­fled yell, he thought he had stopped at least one of them, but there was no time to stop and look; he jumped over the cup and dived as he heard more wand blasts be­hind him; more jets of light flew over his head as he fell, stretch­ing out his hand to grab Cedric's arm…

“Stand aside! I will kill him! He is mine!” shrieked Volde­mort. Har­ry's hand had closed on Cedric's wrist; one tomb­stone stood be­tween him and Volde­mort, but Cedric was too heavy to car­ry, and the cup was out of reach -

Volde­mort's red eyes flamed in the dark­ness. Har­ry saw his mouth curl in­to a smile, saw him raise his wand.

“Ac­cio!” Har­ry yelled, point­ing his wand at the Tri­wiz­ard Cup. It flew in­to the air and soared to­ward him. Har­ry caught it by the han­dle -

He heard Volde­mort's scream of fury at the same mo­ment that he felt the jerk be­hind his navel that meant the Portkey had worked - it was speed­ing him away in a whirl of wind and col­or, and Cedric along with him.…They were go­ing back.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE


VER­ITASERUM



H ar­ry felt him­self slam flat in­to the ground; his face was pressed in­to grass; the smell of it filled his nos­trils. He had closed his eyes while the Portkey trans­port­ed him, and he kept them closed now. He did not move. All the breath seemed to have been knocked out of him; his head was swim­ming so bad­ly he felt as though the ground be­neath him were sway­ing like the deck of a ship. To hold him­self steady, he tight­ened his hold on the two things he was still clutch­ing: the smooth, cold han­dle of the Tri­wiz­ard Cup and Cedric's body. He felt as though he would slide away in­to the black­ness gath­er­ing at the edges of his brain if he let go of ei­ther of them. Shock and ex­haus­tion kept him on the ground, breath­ing in the smell of the grass, wait­ing…wait­ing for some­one to do some­thing…some­thing to hap­pen…and all the while, his scar burned dul­ly on his fore­head.…

A tor­rent of sound deaf­ened and con­fused him; there were voic­es ev­ery­where, foot­steps, screams.…He re­mained where he was, his face screwed up against the noise, as though it were a night­mare that would pass.…

Then a pair of hands seized him rough­ly and turned him over.

“Har­ry! Har­ry!”

He opened his eyes.

He was look­ing up at the star­ry sky, and Al­bus Dum­ble­dore was crouched over him. The dark shad­ows of a crowd of peo­ple pressed in around them, push­ing near­er; Har­ry felt the ground be­neath his head re­ver­ber­at­ing with their foot­steps.

He had come back to the edge of the maze. He could see the stands ris­ing above him, the shapes of peo­ple mov­ing in them, the stars above.

Har­ry let go of the cup, but he clutched Cedric to him even more tight­ly. He raised his free hand and seized Dum­ble­dore's wrist, while Dum­ble­dore's face swam in and out of fo­cus.

“He's back,” Har­ry whis­pered. “He's back. Volde­mort.”

“What's go­ing on? What's hap­pened?”

The face of Cor­nelius Fudge ap­peared up­side down over Har­ry; it looked white, ap­palled.

“My God - Dig­gory!” it whis­pered. “Dum­ble­dore - he's dead!”

The words were re­peat­ed, the shad­owy fig­ures press­ing in on them gasped it to those around them…and then oth­ers shout­ed it - screeched it - in­to the night - “He's dead!” “He's dead!” “Cedric Dig­gory! Dead!”

“Har­ry, let go of him,” he heard Fudge's voice say, and he felt fin­gers try­ing to pry him from Cedric's limp body, but Har­ry wouldn't let him go. Then Dum­ble­dore's face, which was still blurred and mist­ed, came clos­er.

“Har­ry, you can't help him now. It's over. Let go.”

“He want­ed me to bring him back,” Har­ry mut­tered - it seemed im­por­tant to ex­plain this. “He want­ed me to bring him back to his par­ents.…”

“That's right. Har­ry…just let go now.…”

Dum­ble­dore bent down, and with ex­traor­di­nary strength for a man so old and thin, raised Har­ry from the ground and set -him on his feet. Har­ry swayed. His head was pound­ing. His in­jured leg would no longer sup­port his weight. The crowd around them jos­tled, fight­ing to get clos­er, press­ing dark­ly in on him - “What's hap­pened?” “What's wrong with him?” “Dig­gory's dead!”

“He'll need to go to the hos­pi­tal wing!” Fudge was say­ing loud­ly. “He's ill, he's in­jured - Dum­ble­dore, Dig­gory's par­ents, they're here, they're in the stands.…”

“I'll take Har­ry, Dum­ble­dore, I'll take him -”

“No, I would pre­fer-”

“Dum­ble­dore, Amos Dig­gory's run­ning…he's com­ing over.…Don't you think you should tell him - be­fore he sees - ?”

“Har­ry, stay here -”

Girls were scream­ing, sob­bing hys­ter­ical­ly.…The scene flick­ered odd­ly be­fore Har­ry's eyes.…

“Its all right, son, I've got you…come on…hos­pi­tal wing…”

“Dum­ble­dore said stay,” said Har­ry thick­ly, the pound­ing in his scar mak­ing him feel as though he was about to throw up; his vi­sion was blur­ring worse than ev­er.

“You need to lie down….Come on now.…”

Some­one larg­er and stronger than he was was half pulling, half car­ry­ing him through the fright­ened crowd. Har­ry heard peo­ple gasp­ing, scream­ing, and shout­ing as the man sup­port­ing him pushed a path through them, tak­ing him back to the cas­tle. Across the lawn, past the lake and the Durm­strang ship, Har­ry heard noth­ing but the heavy breath­ing of the man help­ing him walk.

“What hap­pened. Har­ry?” the man asked at last as he lift­ed Har­ry up the stone steps. Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. It was Mad-​Eye Moody.

“Cup was a Portkey,” said Har­ry as they crossed the en­trance hall. “Took me and Cedric to a grave­yard…and Volde­mort was there…Lord Volde­mort…”

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Up the mar­ble stairs…

“The Dark Lord was there? What hap­pened then?”

“Killed Cedric…they killed Cedric.…”

“And then?”

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Along the cor­ri­dor…

“Made a po­tion…got his body back.…”

“The Dark Lord got his body back? He's re­turned?”

“And the Death Eaters came…and then we du­eled.…”

“You du­eled with the Dark Lord?”

“Got away…my wand…did some­thing fun­ny.…I saw my mum and dad…they came out of his wand.…”

“In here. Har­ry…in here, and sit down.…You'll be all right now…drink this.…”

Har­ry heard a key scrape in a lock and felt a cup be­ing pushed in­to his hands.

“Drink it…you'll feel bet­ter…come on, now. Har­ry, I need to know ex­act­ly what hap­pened.…”

Moody helped tip the stuff down Har­ry's throat; he coughed, a pep­pery taste burn­ing his throat. Moody's of­fice came in­to sharp­er fo­cus, and so did Moody him­self.…He looked as white as Fudge had looked, and both eyes were fixed un­blink­ing­ly up­on Har­ry's face.

“Volde­mort's back, Har­ry? You're sure he's back? How did he do it?”

“He took stuff from his fa­ther's grave, and from Worm­tail, and me,” said Har­ry. His head felt clear­er; his scar wasn't hurt­ing so bad­ly; he could now see Moody's face dis­tinct­ly, even though the of­fice was dark. He could still hear scream­ing and shout­ing from the dis­tant Quid­ditch field.

“What did the Dark Lord take from you?” said Moody.

“Blood,” said Har­ry, rais­ing his arm. His sleeve was ripped where Worm­tail's dag­ger had torn it.

Moody let out his breath in a long, low hiss.

“And the Death Eaters? They re­turned?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry. “Loads of them…”

“How did he treat them?” Moody asked qui­et­ly. “Did he for­give them?”

But Har­ry had sud­den­ly re­mem­bered. He should have told Dum­ble­dore, he should have said it straight­away -

“There's a Death Eater at Hog­warts! There's a Death Eater here - they put my name in the Gob­let of Fire, they made sure I got through to the end -”

Har­ry tried to get up, but Moody pushed him back down.

“I know who the Death Eater is,” he said qui­et­ly.

“Karkaroff?” said Har­ry wild­ly. “Where is he? Have you got him? Is he locked up?”

“Karkaroff?” said Moody with an odd laugh. “Karkaroff fled tonight, when he felt the Dark Mark burn up­on his arm. He be­trayed too many faith­ful sup­port­ers of the Dark Lord to wish to meet them…but I doubt he will get far. The Dark Lord has ways of track­ing his en­emies.”

“Karkaroff's gone? He ran away? But then - he didn't put my name in the gob­let?”

“No,” said Moody slow­ly. “No, he didn't. It was I who did that.”

Har­ry heard, but didn't be­lieve.

“No, you didn't,” he said. “You didn't do that…you can't have done…”

“I as­sure you I did,” said Moody, and his mag­ical eye swung around and fixed up­on the door, and Har­ry knew he was mak­ing sure that there was no one out­side it. At the same time, Moody drew out his wand and point­ed it at Har­ry.

“He for­gave them, then?” he said. “The Death Eaters who went free? The ones who es­caped Azk­aban?”

“What?” said Har­ry.

He was look­ing at the wand Moody was point­ing at him. This was a bad joke, it had to be.

“I asked you,” said Moody qui­et­ly, “whether he for­gave the scum who nev­er even went to look for him. Those treach­er­ous cow­ards who wouldn't even brave Azk­aban for him. The faith­less, worth­less bits of filth who were brave enough to ca­vort in masks at the Quid­ditch World Cup, but fled at the sight of the Dark Mark when I fired it in­to the sky.”

“You fired…What are you talk­ing about…?”

“I told you. Har­ry…I told you. If there's one thing I hate more than any oth­er, it's a Death Eater who walked free. They turned their backs on my mas­ter when he need­ed them most. I ex­pect­ed him to pun­ish them. I ex­pect­ed him to tor­ture them. Tell me he hurt them, Har­ry.…” Moody's face was sud­den­ly lit with an in­sane smile. “Tell me he told them that I, I alone re­mained faith­ful…pre­pared to risk ev­ery­thing to de­liv­er to him the one thing he want­ed above all…you.”

“You didn't…it - it can't be you.…”

“Who put your name in the Gob­let of Fire, un­der the name of a dif­fer­ent school? I did. Who fright­ened off ev­ery per­son I thought might try to hurt you or pre­vent you from win­ning the tour­na­ment? I did. Who nudged Ha­grid in­to show­ing you the drag­ons? I did. Who helped you see the on­ly way you could beat the drag­on? I did.”

Moody's mag­ical eye had now left the door. It was fixed up­on Har­ry. His lop­sid­ed mouth leered more wide­ly than ev­er.

“It hasn't been easy, Har­ry, guid­ing you through these tasks with­out arous­ing sus­pi­cion. I have had to use ev­ery ounce of cun­ning I pos­sess, so that my hand would not be de­tectable in your suc­cess. Dum­ble­dore would have been very sus­pi­cious if you had man­aged ev­ery­thing too eas­ily. As long as you got in­to that maze, prefer­ably with a de­cent head start - then, I knew, I would have a chance of get­ting rid of the oth­er cham­pi­ons and leav­ing your way clear. But I al­so had to con­tend with your stu­pid­ity. The sec­ond task…that was when I was most afraid we would fail. I was keep­ing watch on you, Pot­ter. I knew you hadn't worked out the egg's clue, so I had to give you an­oth­er hint -”

“You didn't,” Har­ry said hoarse­ly. “Cedric gave me the clue -”

"Who told Cedric to open it un­der­wa­ter? I did. I trust­ed that he would pass the in­for­ma­tion on to you. De­cent peo­ple are so easy to ma­nip­ulate, Pot­ter. I was sure Cedric would want to re­pay you for telling him about the drag­ons, and so he did. But even then, Pot­ter, even then you seemed like­ly to fail. I was watch­ing all the time…all those hours in the li­brary. Didn't you re­al­ize that the book you need­ed was in your dor­mi­to­ry all along? I plant­ed it there ear­ly on, I gave it to the Long­bot­tom boy, don't you re­mem­ber? Mag­ical Wa­ter Plants of the Mediter­ranean. It would have told you all you need­ed to know about gilly­weed. I ex­pect­ed you to ask ev­ery­one and any­one you could for help. Long­bot­tom would have told you in an in­stant. But you did not…you did not.…You have a streak of pride and in­de­pen­dence that might have ru­ined all.

“So what could I do? Feed you in­for­ma­tion from an­oth­er in­no­cent source. You told me at the Yule Ball a house-​elf called Dob­by had giv­en you a Christ­mas present. I called the elf to the staffroom to col­lect some robes for clean­ing. I staged a loud con­ver­sa­tion with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall about the hostages who had been tak­en, and whether Pot­ter would think to use gilly­weed. And your lit­tle elf friend ran straight to Snape's of­fice and then hur­ried to find you…”

Moody's wand was still point­ing di­rect­ly at Har­ry's heart. Over his shoul­der, fog­gy shapes were mov­ing in the Foe-​Glass on the wall.

"You were so long in that lake, Pot­ter, I thought you had drowned. But luck­ily, Dum­ble­dore took your id­io­cy for no­bil­ity, and marked you high for it. I breathed again.

“You had an eas­ier time of it than you should have in that maze tonight, of course,” said Moody. “I was pa­trolling around it, able to see through the out­er hedges, able to curse many ob­sta­cles out of your way. I Stunned Fleur Dela­cour as she passed. I put the Im­perius Curse on Krum, so that he would fin­ish Dig­gory and leave your path to the cup clear.”

Har­ry stared at Moody. He just didn't see how this could be.…Dum­ble­dore's friend, the fa­mous Au­ror…the one who had caught so many Death Eaters…It made no sense…no sense at all.…

The fog­gy shapes in the Foe-​Glass were sharp­en­ing, had be­come more dis­tinct. Har­ry could see the out­lines of three peo­ple over Moody's shoul­der, mov­ing clos­er and clos­er. But Moody wasn't watch­ing them. His mag­ical eye was up­on Har­ry.

“The Dark Lord didn't man­age to kill you. Pot­ter, and he so want­ed to,” whis­pered Moody. “Imag­ine how he will re­ward me when he finds I have done it for him. I gave you to him - the thing he need­ed above all to re­gen­er­ate - and then I killed you for him. I will be hon­ored be­yond all oth­er Death Eaters. I will be his dear­est, his clos­est sup­port­er…clos­er than a son.…”

Moody's nor­mal eye was bulging, the mag­ical eye fixed up­on Har­ry. The door was barred, and Har­ry knew he would nev­er reach his own wand in time.…

“The Dark Lord and I,” said Moody, and he looked com­plete­ly in­sane now, tow­er­ing over Har­ry, leer­ing down at him, “have much in com­mon. Both of us, for in­stance, had very dis­ap­point­ing fa­thers…very dis­ap­point­ing in­deed. Both of us suf­fered the in­dig­ni­ty, Har­ry, of be­ing named af­ter those fa­thers. And both of us had the plea­sure…the very great plea­sure…of killing our fa­thers to en­sure the con­tin­ued rise of the Dark Or­der!”

“You're mad,” Har­ry said - he couldn't stop him­self- “you're mad!”

“Mad, am I?” said Moody, his voice ris­ing un­con­trol­lably. “We'll see! We'll see who's mad, now that the Dark Lord has re­turned, with me at his side! He is back, Har­ry Pot­ter, you did not con­quer him - and now - I con­quer you!”

Moody raised his wand, he opened his mouth; Har­ry plunged his own hand in­to his robes -

“Stu­pe­fy!” There was a blind­ing flash of red light, and with a great splin­ter­ing and crash­ing, the door of Moody's of­fice was blast­ed apart -

Moody was thrown back­ward on­to the of­fice floor. Har­ry, still star­ing at the place where Moody's face had been, saw Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, Pro­fes­sor Snape, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall look­ing back at him out of the Foe-​Glass. He looked around and saw the three of them stand­ing in the door­way, Dum­ble­dore in front, his wand out­stretched.

At that mo­ment, Har­ry ful­ly un­der­stood for the first time why peo­ple said Dum­ble­dore was the on­ly wiz­ard Volde­mort had ev­er feared. The look up­on Dum­ble­dore's face as he stared down at the un­con­scious form of Mad-​Eye Moody was more ter­ri­ble than Har­ry could have ev­er imag­ined. There was no be­nign smile up­on Dum­ble­dore's face, no twin­kle in the eyes be­hind the spec­ta­cles. There was cold fury in ev­ery line of the an­cient face; a sense of pow­er ra­di­at­ed from Dum­ble­dore as though he were giv­ing off burn­ing heat.

He stepped in­to the of­fice, placed a foot un­der­neath Moody's un­con­scious body, and kicked him over on­to his back, so that his face was vis­ible. Snape fol­lowed him, look­ing in­to the Foe-​Glass, where his own face was still vis­ible, glar­ing in­to the room. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall went straight to Har­ry.

“Come along, Pot­ter,” she whis­pered. The thin line of her mouth was twitch­ing as though she was about to cry. “Come along…hos­pi­tal wing…”

“No,” said Dum­ble­dore sharply.

“Dum­ble­dore, he ought to - look at him - he's been through enough tonight -”

“He will stay, Min­er­va, be­cause he needs to un­der­stand,” said Dum­ble­dore curt­ly. “Un­der­stand­ing is the first step to ac­cep­tance, and on­ly with ac­cep­tance can there be re­cov­ery. He needs to know who has put him through the or­deal he has suf­fered tonight, and why,”

“Moody,” Har­ry said. He was still in a state of com­plete dis­be­lief. “How can it have been Moody?”

“This is not Alas­tor Moody,” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. “You have nev­er known Alas­tor Moody. The re­al Moody would not have re­moved you from my sight af­ter what hap­pened tonight. The mo­ment he took you, I knew - and I fol­lowed.”

Dum­ble­dore bent down over Moody's limp form and put a hand in­side his robes. He pulled out Moody's hip flask and a set of keys on a ring. Then he turned to Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Snape.

“Severus, please fetch me the strongest Truth Po­tion you pos­sess, and then go down to the kitchens and bring up the house-​elf called Winky. Min­er­va, kind­ly go down to Ha­grid's house, where you will find a large black dog sit­ting in the pump­kin patch. Take the dog up to my of­fice, tell him I will be with him short­ly, then come back here.”

If ei­ther Snape or McG­ona­gall found these in­struc­tions pe­cu­liar, they hid their con­fu­sion. Both turned at once and left the of­fice. Dum­ble­dore walked over to the trunk with sev­en locks, fit­ted the first key in the lock, and opened it. It con­tained a mass of spell-​books. Dum­ble­dore closed the trunk, placed a sec­ond key in the sec­ond lock, and opened the trunk again. The spell­books had van­ished; this time it con­tained an as­sort­ment of bro­ken Sneako-​scopes, some parch­ment and quills, and what looked like a sil­very In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Har­ry watched, as­tound­ed, as Dum­ble­dore placed the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth keys in their re­spec­tive locks, re­open­ing the trunk each time, and re­veal­ing dif­fer­ent con­tents each time. Then he placed the sev­enth key in the lock, threw open the lid, and Har­ry let out a cry of amaze­ment.

He was look­ing down in­to a kind of pit, an un­der­ground room, and ly­ing on the floor some ten feet be­low, ap­par­ent­ly fast asleep, thin and starved in ap­pear­ance, was the re­al Mad-​Eye Moody. His wood­en leg was gone, the sock­et that should have held the mag­ical eye looked emp­ty be­neath its lid, and chunks of his griz­zled hair were miss­ing. Har­ry stared, thun­der­struck, be­tween the sleep­ing Moody in the trunk and the un­con­scious Moody ly­ing on the floor of the of­fice.

Dum­ble­dore climbed in­to the trunk, low­ered him­self, and fell light­ly on­to the floor be­side the sleep­ing Moody. He bent over him.

“Stunned - con­trolled by the Im­perius Curse - very weak,” he said. “Of course, they would have need­ed to keep him alive. Har­ry, throw down the im­poster's cloak - he's freez­ing. Madam Pom­frey will need to see him, but he seems in no im­me­di­ate dan­ger.”

Har­ry did as he was told; Dum­ble­dore cov­ered Moody in the cloak, tucked it around him, and clam­bered out of the trunk again. Then he picked up the hip flask that stood up­on the desk, un­screwed it, and turned it over. A thick gluti­nous liq­uid splat­tered on­to the of­fice floor.

“Polyjuice Po­tion, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “You see the sim­plic­ity of it, and the bril­liance. For Moody nev­er does drink ex­cept from his hip flask, he's well known for it. The im­poster need­ed, of course, to keep the re­al Moody close by, so that he could con­tin­ue mak­ing the po­tion. You see his hair…” Dum­ble­dore looked down on the Moody in the trunk. “The im­poster has been cut­ting it off all year, see where it is un­even? But I think, in the ex­cite­ment of tonight, our fake Moody might have for­got­ten to take it as fre­quent­ly as he should have done…on the hour…ev­ery hour.…We shall see.”

Dum­ble­dore pulled out the chair at the desk and sat down up­on it, his eyes fixed up­on the un­con­scious Moody on the floor. Har­ry stared at him too. Min­utes passed in si­lence….

Then, be­fore Har­ry's very eyes, the face of the man on the floor be­gan to change. The scars were dis­ap­pear­ing, the skin was be­com­ing smooth; the man­gled nose be­came whole and start­ed to shrink. The long mane of griz­zled gray hair was with­draw­ing in­to the scalp and turn­ing the col­or of straw. Sud­den­ly, with a loud clunk, the wood­en leg fell away as a nor­mal leg re­grew in its place; next mo­ment, the mag­ical eye­ball had popped out of the man's face as a re­al eye re­placed it; it rolled away across the floor and con­tin­ued to swiv­el in ev­ery di­rec­tion.

Har­ry saw a man ly­ing be­fore him, pale-​skinned, slight­ly freck­led, with a mop of fair hair. He knew who he was. He had seen him in Dum­ble­dore's Pen­sieve, had watched him be­ing led away from court by the de­men­tors, try­ing to con­vince Mr. Crouch that he was in­no­cent…but he was lined around the eyes now and looked much old­er.…

There were hur­ried foot­steps out­side in the cor­ri­dor. Snape had re­turned with Winky at his heels. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was right be­hind them.

“Crouch!” Snape said, stop­ping dead in the door­way. “Bar­ty Crouch!”

“Good heav­ens,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, stop­ping dead and star­ing down at the man on the floor.

Filthy, di­sheveled, Winky peered around Snape's legs. Her mouth opened wide and she let out a pierc­ing shriek.

“Mas­ter Bar­ty, Mas­ter Bar­ty, what is you do­ing here?”

She flung her­self for­ward on­to the young man's chest.

“You is killed him! You is killed him! You is killed Mas­ter's son!”

“He is sim­ply Stunned, Winky,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Step aside, please. Severus, you have the po­tion?”

Snape hand­ed Dum­ble­dore a small glass bot­tle of com­plete­ly clear liq­uid: the Ver­itaserum with which he had threat­ened Har­ry in class. Dum­ble­dore got up, bent over the man on the floor, and pulled him in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion against the wall be­neath the Foe-​Glass, in which the re­flec­tions of Dum­ble­dore, Snape, and McG­ona­gall were still glar­ing down up­on them all. Winky re­mained on her knees, trem­bling, her hands over her face. Dum­ble­dore forced the mans mouth open and poured three drops in­side it. Then he point­ed his wand at the mans chest and said, “En­ner­vate.”

Crouch's son opened his eyes. His face was slack, his gaze un­fo­cused. Dum­ble­dore knelt be­fore him, so that their faces were lev­el.

“Can you hear me?” Dum­ble­dore asked qui­et­ly.

The man's eye­lids flick­ered.

“Yes,” he mut­tered.

“I would like you to tell us,” said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly, “how you came to be here. How did you es­cape from Azk­aban?”

Crouch took a deep, shud­der­ing breath, then be­gan to speak in a flat, ex­pres­sion­less voice.

“My moth­er saved me. She knew she was dy­ing. She per­suad­ed my fa­ther to res­cue me as a last fa­vor to her. He loved her as he had nev­er loved me. He agreed. They came to vis­it me. They gave me a draft of Polyjuice Po­tion con­tain­ing one of my moth­er's hairs. She took a draft of Polyjuice Po­tion con­tain­ing one of my hairs. We took on each oth­er's ap­pear­ance.”

Winky was shak­ing her head, trem­bling.

“Say no more. Mas­ter Bar­ty, say no more, you is get­ting your fa­ther in­to trou­ble!”

But Crouch took an­oth­er deep breath and con­tin­ued in the same flat voice.

"The de­men­tors are blind. They sensed one healthy, one dy­ing per­son en­ter­ing Azk­aban. They sensed one healthy, one dy­ing per­son leav­ing it. My fa­ther smug­gled me out, dis­guised as my moth­er, in case any pris­on­ers were watch­ing through their doors.

“My moth­er died a short while af­ter­ward in Azk­aban. She was care­ful to drink Polyjuice Po­tion un­til the end. She was buried un­der my name and bear­ing my ap­pear­ance. Ev­ery­one be­lieved her to be me.”

The man's eye­lids flick­ered.

“And what did your fa­ther do with you, when he had got you home?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly.

“Staged my moth­er's death. A qui­et, pri­vate fu­ner­al. That grave is emp­ty. The house-​elf nursed me back to health. Then I had to be con­cealed. I had to be con­trolled. My fa­ther had to use a num­ber of spells to sub­due me. When I had re­cov­ered my strength, I thought on­ly of find­ing my mas­ter…of re­turn­ing to his ser­vice.”

“How did your fa­ther sub­due you?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“The Im­perius Curse,” Moody said. “I was un­der my fa­thers con­trol. I was forced to wear an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak day and night. I was al­ways with the house-​elf. She was my keep­er and care­tak­er. She pitied me. She per­suad­ed my fa­ther to give me oc­ca­sion­al treats. Re­wards for my good be­hav­ior.”

“Mas­ter Bar­ty, Mas­ter Bar­ty,” sobbed Winky through her hands. “You isn't ought to tell them, we is get­ting in trou­ble.…”

“Did any­body ev­er dis­cov­er that you were still alive?” said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly. “Did any­one know ex­cept your fa­ther and the house-​elf?”

“Yes,” said Crouch, his eye­lids flick­er­ing again. “A witch in my fa­ther's of­fice. Bertha Jorkins. She came to the house with pa­pers for my fa­ther's sig­na­ture. He was not at home. Winky showed her in­side and re­turned to the kitchen, to me. But Bertha Jorkins heard Winky talk­ing to me. She came to in­ves­ti­gate. She heard enough to guess who was hid­ing un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. My fa­ther ar­rived home. She con­front­ed him. He put a very pow­er­ful Mem­ory Charm on her to make her for­get what she'd found out. Too pow­er­ful. He said it dam­aged her mem­ory per­ma­nent­ly.”

“Why is she com­ing to nose in­to my mas­ters pri­vate busi­ness?” sobbed Winky. “Why isn't she leav­ing us be?”

“Tell me about the Quid­ditch World Cup,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Winky talked my fa­ther in­to it,” said Crouch, still in the same monotonous voice. "She spent months per­suad­ing him. I had not left the house for years. I had loved Quid­ditch. Let him go, she said. He will be in his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. He can watch. Let him smell fresh air for once. She said my moth­er would have want­ed it. She told my fa­ther that my moth­er had died to give me free­dom. She had not saved me for a life of im­pris­on­ment. He agreed in the end.

"It was care­ful­ly planned. My fa­ther led me and Winky up to the Top Box ear­ly in the day. Winky was to say that she was sav­ing a seat for my fa­ther. I was to sit there, in­vis­ible. When ev­ery­one had left the box, we would emerge. Winky would ap­pear to be alone. No­body would ev­er know.

“But Winky didn't know that I was grow­ing stronger. I was start­ing to fight my fa­ther's Im­perius Curse. There were times when I was al­most my­self again. There were brief pe­ri­ods when I seemed out­side his con­trol. It hap­pened, there, in the Top Box. It was like wak­ing from a deep sleep. I found my­self out in pub­lic, in the mid­dle of the match, and I saw, in front of me, a wand stick­ing out of a boys pock­et. I had not been al­lowed a wand since be­fore Azk­aban. I stole it. Winky didn't know. Winky is fright­ened of heights. She had her face hid­den.”

“Mas­ter Bar­ty, you bad boy!” whis­pered Winky, tears trick­ling be­tween her fin­gers.

“So you took the wand,” said Dum­ble­dore, “and what did you do with it?”

“We went back to the tent,” said Crouch. "Then we heard them. We heard the Death Eaters. The ones who had nev­er been to Azk­aban. The ones who had nev­er suf­fered for my mas­ter. They had turned their backs on him. They were not en­slaved, as I was. They were free to seek him, but they did not. They were mere­ly mak­ing sport of Mug­gles. The sound of their voic­es awoke me. My mind was clear­er than it had been in years. I was an­gry. I had the wand.

I want­ed to at­tack them for their dis­loy­al­ty to my mas­ter. My fa­ther had left the tent; he had gone to free the Mug­gles. Winky was afraid to see me so an­gry. She used her own brand of mag­ic to bind me to her. She pulled me from the tent, pulled me in­to the for­est, away from the Death Eaters. I tried to hold her back. I want­ed to re­turn to the camp­site. I want­ed to show those Death Eaters what loy­al­ty to the Dark Lord meant, and to pun­ish them for their lack of it. I used the stolen wand to cast the Dark Mark in­to the sky.

"Min­istry wiz­ards ar­rived. They shot Stun­ning Spells ev­ery­where. One of the spells came through the trees where Winky and I stood. The bond con­nect­ing us was bro­ken. We were both Stunned.

“When Winky was dis­cov­ered, my fa­ther knew I must be near­by. He searched the bush­es where she had been found and felt me ly­ing there. He wait­ed un­til the oth­er Min­istry mem­bers had left the for­est. He put me back un­der the Im­perius Curse and took me home. He dis­missed Winky. She had failed him. She had let me ac­quire a wand. She had al­most let me es­cape.”

Winky let out a wail of de­spair.

“Now it was just Fa­ther and I, alone in the house. And then…and then…” Crouch's head rolled on his neck, and an in­sane grin spread across his face. "My mas­ter came for me.

“He ar­rived at our house late one night in the arms of his ser­vant Worm­tail. My mas­ter had found out that I was still alive. He had cap­tured Bertha Jorkins in Al­ba­nia. He had tor­tured her. She told him a great deal. She told him about the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. She told him the old Au­ror, Moody, was go­ing to teach at Hog­warts. He tor­tured her un­til he broke through the Mem­ory Charm my fa­ther had placed up­on her. She told him I had es­caped from Azk­aban. She told him my fa­ther kept me im­pris­oned to pre­vent me from seek­ing my mas­ter. And so my mas­ter knew that I was still his faith­ful ser­vant - per­haps the most faith­ful of all. My mas­ter con­ceived a plan, based up­on the in­for­ma­tion Bertha had giv­en him. He need­ed me. He ar­rived at our house near mid­night. My fa­ther an­swered the door.”

The smile spread wider over Crouch's face, as though re­call­ing the sweet­est mem­ory of his life. Winky's pet­ri­fied brown eyes were vis­ible through her fin­gers. She seemed too ap­palled to speak.

"It was very quick. My fa­ther was placed un­der the Im­perius Curse by my mas­ter. Now my fa­ther was the one im­pris­oned, con­trolled. My mas­ter forced him to go about his busi­ness as usu­al, to act as though noth­ing was wrong. And I was re­leased. I awoke. I was my­self again, alive as I hadn't been in years.

“And what did Lord Volde­mort ask you to do?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“He asked me whether I was ready to risk ev­ery­thing for him. I was ready. It was my dream, my great­est am­bi­tion, to serve him, to prove my­self to him. He told me he need­ed to place a faith­ful ser­vant at Hog­warts. A ser­vant who would guide Har­ry Pot­ter through the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment with­out ap­pear­ing to do so. A ser­vant who would watch over Har­ry Pot­ter. En­sure he reached the Tri­wiz­ard Cup. Turn the cup in­to a Portkey, which would take the first per­son to touch it to my mas­ter. But first -”

“You need­ed Alas­tor Moody,” said Dum­ble­dore. His blue eyes were blaz­ing, though his voice re­mained calm.

“Worm­tail and I did it. We had pre­pared the Polyjuice Po­tion be­fore­hand. We jour­neyed to his house. Moody put up a strug­gle. There was a com­mo­tion. We man­aged to sub­due him just in time. Forced him in­to a com­part­ment of his own mag­ical trunk. Took some of his hair and added it to the po­tion. I drank it; I be­came Moody's dou­ble. I took his leg and his eye. I was ready to face Arthur Weasley when he ar­rived to sort out the Mug­gles who had heard a dis­tur­bance. I made the dust­bins move around the yard. I told Arthur Weasley I had heard in­trud­ers in my yard, who had set off the dust­bins. Then I packed up Moody's clothes and Dark de­tec­tors, put them in the trunk with Moody, and set off for Hog­warts. I kept him alive, un­der the Im­perius Curse. I want­ed to be able to ques­tion him. To find out about his past, learn his habits, so that I could fool even Dum­ble­dore. I al­so need­ed his hair to make the Polyjuice Po­tion. The oth­er in­gre­di­ents were easy. I stole boom-​slang skin from the dun­geons. When the Po­tions mas­ter found me in his of­fice, I said I was un­der or­ders to search it.”

“And what be­came of Worm­tail af­ter you at­tacked Moody?” said Dum­ble­dore.

“Worm­tail re­turned to care for my mas­ter, in my fa­ther's house, and to keep watch over my fa­ther.”

“But your fa­ther es­caped,” said Dum­ble­dore.

"Yes. Af­ter a while he be­gan to fight the Im­perius Curse just as I had done. There were pe­ri­ods when he knew what was hap­pen­ing. My mas­ter de­cid­ed it was no longer safe for my fa­ther to leave the house. He forced him to send let­ters to the Min­istry in­stead. He made him write and say he was ill. But Worm­tail ne­glect­ed his du­ty. He was not watch­ful enough. My fa­ther es­caped. My mas­ter guessed that he was head­ing for Hog­warts. My fa­ther was go­ing to tell Dum­ble­dore ev­ery­thing, to con­fess. He was go­ing to ad­mit that he had smug­gled me from Azk­aban.

“My mas­ter sent me word of my fa­ther's es­cape. He told me to stop him at all costs. So I wait­ed and watched. I used the map I had tak­en from Har­ry Pot­ter. The map that had al­most ru­ined ev­ery­thing.”

“Map?” said Dum­ble­dore quick­ly. “What map is this?”

"Pot­ter's map of Hog­warts. Pot­ter saw me on it. Pot­ter saw me steal­ing more in­gre­di­ents for the Polyjuice Po­tion from Snape's of­fice one night. He thought I was my fa­ther. We have the same first name. I took the map from Pot­ter that night. I told him my fa­ther hat­ed Dark wiz­ards. Pot­ter be­lieved my fa­ther was af­ter Snape.

“For a week I wait­ed for my fa­ther to ar­rive at Hog­warts. At last, one evening, the map showed my fa­ther en­ter­ing the grounds. I pulled on my In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and went down to meet him. He was walk­ing around the edge of the for­est. Then Pot­ter came, and Krum. I wait­ed. I could not hurt Pot­ter; my mas­ter need­ed him. Pot­ter ran to get Dum­ble­dore. I Stunned Krum. I killed my fa­ther.”

“Noooo!” wailed Winky. “Mas­ter Bar­ty, Mas­ter Bar­ty, what is you say­ing?”

“You killed your fa­ther,” Dum­ble­dore said, in the same soft voice. “What did you do with the body?”

"Car­ried it in­to the for­est. Cov­ered it with the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. I had the map with me. I watched Pot­ter run in­to the cas­tle. He met Snape. Dum­ble­dore joined them. I watched Pot­ter bring­ing Dum­ble­dore out of the cas­tle. I walked back out of the for­est, dou­bled around be­hind them, went to meet them. I told Dum­ble­dore Snape had told me where to come.

“Dum­ble­dore told me to go and look for my fa­ther. I went back to my fa­ther's body. Watched the map. When ev­ery­one was gone, I Trans­fig­ured my fa­ther's body. He be­came a bone…I buried it, while wear­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, in the fresh­ly dug earth in front of Ha­grid's cab­in.”

There was com­plete si­lence now, ex­cept for Winky's con­tin­ued sobs. Then Dum­ble­dore said, “And tonight…”

“I of­fered to car­ry the Tri­wiz­ard Cup in­to the maze be­fore din­ner,” whis­pered Bar­ty Crouch. “Turned it in­to a Portkey. My mas­ter's plan worked. He is re­turned to pow­er and I will be hon­ored by him be­yond the dreams of wiz­ards.”

The in­sane smile lit his fea­tures once more, and his head drooped on­to his shoul­der as Winky wailed and sobbed at his side.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX


THE PART­ING OF THE WAYS



D um­ble­dore stood up. He stared down at Bar­ty Crouch for a mo­ment with dis­gust on his face. Then he raised his wand once more and ropes flew out of it, ropes that twist­ed them­selves around Bar­ty Crouch, bind­ing him tight­ly. He turned to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Min­er­va, could I ask you to stand guard here while I take Har­ry up­stairs?”

“Of course,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. She looked slight­ly nau­seous, as though she had just watched some­one be­ing sick. How­ev­er, when she drew out her wand and point­ed it at Bar­ty Crouch, her hand was quite steady.

“Severus” - Dum­ble­dore turned to Snape - “please tell Madam Pom­frey to come down here; we need to get Alas­tor Moody in­to the hos­pi­tal wing. Then go down in­to the grounds, find Cor­nelius Fudge, and bring him up to this of­fice. He will un­doubt­ed­ly want to ques­tion Crouch him­self. Tell him I will be in the hos­pi­tal wing in half an hour's time if he needs me.”

Snape nod­ded silent­ly and swept out of the room.

“Har­ry?” Dum­ble­dore said gen­tly.

Har­ry got up and swayed again; the pain in his leg, which he had not no­ticed all the time he had been lis­ten­ing to Crouch, now re­turned in full mea­sure. He al­so re­al­ized that he was shak­ing. Dum­ble­dore gripped his arm and helped him out in­to the dark cor­ri­dor.

“I want you to come up to my of­fice first. Har­ry,” he said quiedy as they head­ed up the pas­sage­way. “Sir­ius is wait­ing for us there.”

Har­ry nod­ded. A kind of numb­ness and a sense of com­plete un­re­al­ity were up­on him, but he did not care; he was even glad of it. He didn't want to have to think about any­thing that had hap­pened since he had first touched the Tri­wiz­ard Cup. He didn't want to have to ex­am­ine the mem­ories, fresh and sharp as pho­tographs, which kept flash­ing across his mind. Mad-​Eye Moody, in­side the trunk. Worm­tail, slumped on the ground, cradling his stump of an arm. Volde­mort, ris­ing from the steam­ing caul­dron. Cedric…dead…Cedric, ask­ing to be re­turned to his par­ents.…

“Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry mum­bled, “where are Mr. and Mrs. Dig­gory?”

“They are with Pro­fes­sor Sprout,” said Dum­ble­dore. His voice, which had been so calm through­out the in­ter­ro­ga­tion of Bar­ty Crouch, shook very slight­ly for the first time. “She was Head of Cedric's house, and knew him best.”

They had reached the stone gar­goyle. Dum­ble­dore gave the pass­word, it sprang aside, and he and Har­ry went up the mov­ing spi­ral stair­case to the oak door. Dum­ble­dore pushed it open. Sir­ius was stand­ing there. His face was white and gaunt as it had been when he had es­caped Azk­aban. In one swift mo­ment, he had crossed the room.

“Har­ry, are you all right? I knew it - I knew some­thing like this - what hap­pened?”

His hands shook as he helped Har­ry in­to a chair in front of the desk.

“What hap­pened?” he asked more ur­gent­ly.

Dum­ble­dore be­gan to tell Sir­ius ev­ery­thing Bar­ty Crouch had said. Har­ry was on­ly half lis­ten­ing. So tired ev­ery bone in his body was aching, he want­ed noth­ing more than to sit here, undis­turbed, for hours and hours, un­til he fell asleep and didn't have to think or feel any­more.

There was a soft rush of wings. Fawkes the phoenix had left his perch, flown across the of­fice, and land­ed on Har­ry's knee.

“'Lo, Fawkes,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly. He stroked the phoenix's beau­ti­ful scar­let-​and-​gold plumage. Fawkes blinked peace­ful­ly up at him. There was some­thing com­fort­ing about his warm weight.

Dum­ble­dore stopped talk­ing. He sat down op­po­site Har­ry, be­hind his desk. He was look­ing at Har­ry, who avoid­ed his eyes. Dum­ble­dore was go­ing to ques­tion him. He was go­ing to make Har­ry re­live ev­ery­thing.

“I need to know what hap­pened af­ter you touched the Portkey in the maze. Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“We can leave that till morn­ing, can't we, Dum­ble­dore?” said Sir­ius harsh­ly. He had put a hand on Har­ry's shoul­der. “Let him have a sleep. Let him rest.”

Har­ry felt a rush of grat­itude to­ward Sir­ius, but Dum­ble­dore took no no­tice of Sir­ius's words. He leaned for­ward to­ward Har­ry. Very un­will­ing­ly, Har­ry raised his head and looked in­to those blue eyes.

“If I thought I could help you,” Dum­ble­dore said gen­tly, “by putting you in­to an en­chant­ed sleep and al­low­ing you to post­pone the mo­ment when you would have to think about what has hap­pened tonight, I would do it. But I know bet­ter. Numb­ing the pain for a while will make it worse when you fi­nal­ly feel it. You have shown brav­ery be­yond any­thing I could have ex­pect­ed of you. I ask you to demon­strate your courage one more time. I ask you to tell us what hap­pened.”

The phoenix let out one soft, qua­ver­ing note. It shiv­ered in the air, and Har­ry felt as though a drop of hot liq­uid had slipped down his throat in­to his stom­ach, warm­ing him, and strength­en­ing him.

He took a deep breath and be­gan to tell them. As he spoke, vi­sions of ev­ery­thing that had passed that night seemed to rise be­fore his eyes; he saw the sparkling sur­face of the po­tion that had re­vived Volde­mort; he saw the Death Eaters Ap­pa­rat­ing be­tween the graves around them; he saw Cedric's body, ly­ing on the ground be­side the cup.

Once or twice, Sir­ius made a noise as though about to say some­thing, his hand still tight on Har­ry's shoul­der, but Dum­ble­dore raised his hand to stop him, and Har­ry was glad of this, be­cause it was eas­ier to keep go­ing now he had start­ed. It was even a re­lief; he felt al­most as though some­thing poi­sonous were be­ing ex­tract­ed from him. It was cost­ing him ev­ery bit of de­ter­mi­na­tion he had to keep talk­ing, yet he sensed that once he had fin­ished, he would feel bet­ter.

When Har­ry told of Worm­tail pierc­ing his arm with the dag­ger, how­ev­er, Sir­ius let out a ve­he­ment ex­cla­ma­tion and Dum­ble­dore stood up so quick­ly that Har­ry start­ed. Dum­ble­dore walked around the desk and told Har­ry to stretch out his arm. Har­ry showed them both the place where his robes were torn and the cut be­neath them.

“He said my blood would make him stronger than if he'd used some­one else's,” Har­ry told Dum­ble­dore. “He said the pro­tec­tion my - my moth­er left in me - he'd have it too. And he was right - he could touch me with­out hurt­ing him­self, he touched my face.”

For a fleet­ing in­stant, Har­ry thought he saw a gleam of some­thing like tri­umph in Dum­ble­dore's eyes. But next sec­ond. Har­ry was sure he had imag­ined it, for when Dum­ble­dore had re­turned to his seat be­hind the desk, he looked as old and weary as Har­ry had ev­er seen him.

“Very well,” he said, sit­ting down again. “Volde­mort has over­come that par­tic­ular bar­ri­er. Har­ry, con­tin­ue, please.”

Har­ry went on; he ex­plained how Volde­mort had emerged from the caul­dron, and told them all he could re­mem­ber of Volde­mort's speech to the Death Eaters. Then he told how Volde­mort had un­tied him, re­turned his wand to him, and pre­pared to du­el.

But when he reached the part where the gold­en beam of light had con­nect­ed his and Volde­mort's wands, he found his throat ob­struct­ed. He tried to keep talk­ing, but the mem­ories of what had come out of Volde­mort's wand were flood­ing in­to his mind. He could see Cedric emerg­ing, see the old man, Bertha Jorkins…his fa­ther…his moth­er…

He was glad when Sir­ius broke the si­lence.

“The wands con­nect­ed?” he said, look­ing from Har­ry to Dum­ble­dore. “Why?”

Har­ry looked up at Dum­ble­dore again, on whose face there was an ar­rest­ed look.

“Pri­ori In­can­tatem,” he mut­tered.

His eyes gazed in­to Har­ry's and it was al­most as though an in­vis­ible beam of un­der­stand­ing shot be­tween them.

“The Re­verse Spell ef­fect?” said Sir­ius sharply.

“Ex­act­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Har­ry's wand and Volde­mort's wand share cores. Each of them con­tains a feath­er from the tail of the same phoenix. This phoenix, in fact,” he added, and he point­ed at the scar­let-​and-​gold bird, perch­ing peace­ful­ly on Har­ry's knee.

“My wand's feath­er came from Fawkes?” Har­ry said, amazed.

“Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Mr. Ol­li­van­der wrote to tell me you had bought the sec­ond wand, the mo­ment you left his shop four years ago.”

“So what hap­pens when a wand meets its broth­er?” said Sir­ius.

“They will not work prop­er­ly against each oth­er,” said Dum­ble­dore. “If, how­ev­er, the own­ers of the wands force the wands to do bat­tle…a very rare ef­fect will take place. One of the wands will force the oth­er to re­gur­gi­tate spells it has per­formed - in re­verse. The most re­cent first…and then those which pre­ced­ed it.…”

He looked in­ter­rog­ative­ly at Har­ry, and Har­ry nod­ded.

“Which means,” said Dum­ble­dore slow­ly, his eyes up­on Har­ry's face, “that some form of Cedric must have reap­peared.”

Har­ry nod­ded again.

“Dig­gory came back to life?” said Sir­ius sharply.

“No spell can reawak­en the dead,” said Dum­ble­dore heav­ily. “All that would have hap­pened is a kind of re­verse echo. A shad­ow of the liv­ing Cedric would have emerged from the wand…am I cor­rect, Har­ry?”

“He spoke to me,” Har­ry said. He was sud­den­ly shak­ing again. “The…the ghost Cedric, or what­ev­er he was, spoke.”

“An echo,” said Dum­ble­dore, “which re­tained Cedric's ap­pear­ance and char­ac­ter. I am guess­ing oth­er such forms ap­peared…less re­cent vic­tims of Volde­mort's wand.…”

“An old man,” Har­ry said, his throat still con­strict­ed. “Bertha Jorkins. And…”

“Your par­ents?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly.

“Yes,” said Har­ry.

Sir­ius's grip on Har­ry's shoul­der was now so tight it was painful.

“The last mur­ders the wand per­formed,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding. “In re­verse or­der. More would have ap­peared, of course, had you main­tained the con­nec­tion. Very well, Har­ry, these echoes, these shad­ows…what did they do?”

Har­ry de­scribed how the fig­ures that had emerged from the wand had prowled the edges of the gold­en web, how Volde­mort had seemed to fear them, how the shad­ow of Har­ry's moth­er had told him what to do, how Cedric's had made its fi­nal re­quest.

At this point. Har­ry found he could not con­tin­ue. He looked around at Sir­ius and saw that he had his face in his hands.

Har­ry sud­den­ly be­came aware that Fawkes had left his knee. The phoenix had flut­tered to the floor. It was rest­ing its beau­ti­ful head against Har­ry's in­jured leg, and thick, pearly tears were falling from its eyes on­to the wound left by the spi­der. The pain van­ished. The skin mend­ed. His leg was re­paired.

“I will say it again,” said Dum­ble­dore as the phoenix rose in­to the air and re­set­tled it­self up­on the perch be­side the door. “You have shown brav­ery be­yond any­thing I could have ex­pect­ed of you tonight. Har­ry. You have shown brav­ery equal to those who died fight­ing Volde­mort at the height of his pow­ers. You have shoul­dered a grown wiz­ard's bur­den and found your­self equal to it - and you have now giv­en us all we have a right to ex­pect. You will come with me to the hos­pi­tal wing. I do not want you re­turn­ing to the dor­mi­to­ry tonight. A Sleep­ing Po­tion, and some peace…Sir­ius, would you like to stay with him?”

Sir­ius nod­ded and stood up. He trans­formed back in­to the great black dog and walked with Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore out of the of­fice, ac­com­pa­ny­ing them down a flight of stairs to the hos­pi­tal wing.

When Dum­ble­dore pushed open the door. Har­ry saw Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, and Hermione grouped around a ha­rassed-​look­ing Madam Pom­frey. They ap­peared to be de­mand­ing to know where Har­ry was and what had hap­pened to him. All of them whipped around as Har­ry, Dum­ble­dore, and the black dog en­tered, and Mrs. Weasley let out a kind of muf­fled scream.

“Har­ry! Oh Har­ry!”

She start­ed to hur­ry to­ward him, but Dum­ble­dore moved be­tween them.

“Mol­ly,” he said, hold­ing up a hand, “please lis­ten to me for a mo­ment. Har­ry has been through a ter­ri­ble or­deal tonight. He has just had to re­live it for me. What he needs now is sleep, and peace, and qui­et. If he would like you all to stay with him,” he added, look­ing around at Ron, Hermione, and Bill too, “you may do so. But I do not want you ques­tion­ing him un­til he is ready to an­swer, and cer­tain­ly not this evening.”

Mrs. Weasley nod­ded. She was very white. She round­ed on Ron, Hermione, and Bill as though they were be­ing noisy, and hissed, “Did you hear? He needs qui­et!”

“Head­mas­ter,” said Madam Pom­frey, star­ing at the great black dog that was Sir­ius, “may I ask what - ?”

“This dog will be re­main­ing with Har­ry for a while,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply. “I as­sure you, he is ex­treme­ly well trained. Har­ry - I will wait while you get in­to bed.”

Har­ry felt an in­ex­press­ible sense of grat­itude to Dum­ble­dore for ask­ing the oth­ers not to ques­tion him. It wasn't as though he didn't want them there; but the thought of ex­plain­ing it all over again, the idea of re­liv­ing it one more time, was more than he could stand.

“I will be back to see you as soon as I have met with Fudge, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I would like you to re­main here to­mor­row un­til I have spo­ken to the school.” He left.

As Madam Pom­frey led Har­ry to a near­by bed, he caught sight of the re­al Moody ly­ing mo­tion­less in a bed at the far end of the room. His wood­en leg and mag­ical eye were ly­ing on the bed­side ta­ble.

“Is he okay?” Har­ry asked.

“He'll be fine,” said Madam Pom­frey, giv­ing Har­ry some pa­ja­mas and pulling screens around him. He took off his robes, pulled on the pa­ja­mas, and got in­to bed. Ron, Hermione, Bill, Mrs. Weasley, and the black dog came around the screen and set­tled them­selves in chairs on ei­ther side of him. Ron and Hermione were look­ing at him al­most cau­tious­ly, as though scared of him.

“I'm all right,” he told them. “Just tired.”

Mrs. Weasley's eyes filled with tears as she smoothed his bed-​cov­ers un­nec­es­sar­ily.

Madam Pom­frey, who had bus­tled off to her of­fice, re­turned hold­ing a small bot­tle of some pur­ple po­tion and a gob­let.

“You'll need to drink all of this. Har­ry,” she said. “It's a po­tion for dream­less sleep.”

Har­ry took the gob­let and drank a few mouth­fuls. He felt him­self be­com­ing drowsy at once. Ev­ery­thing around him be­came hazy; the lamps around the hos­pi­tal wing seemed to be wink­ing at him in a friend­ly way through the screen around his bed; his body felt as though it was sink­ing deep­er in­to the warmth of the feath­er ma­tress. Be­fore he could fin­ish the po­tion, be­fore he could say an­oth­er word, his ex­haus­tion had car­ried him off to sleep.



Har­ry woke up, so warm, so very sleepy, that he didn't open his eyes, want­ing to drop off again. The room was still dim­ly lit; he was sure it was still night­time and had a feel­ing that he couldn't have been asleep very long.

Then he heard whis­per­ing around him.

“They'll wake him if they don't shut up!”

“What are they shout­ing about? Noth­ing else can have hap­pened, can it?”

Har­ry opened his eyes bleari­ly. Some­one had re­moved his glass­es. He could see the fuzzy out­lines of Mrs. Weasley and Bill close by. Mrs. Weasley was on her feet.

“That's Fudge's voice,” she whis­pered. “And that's Min­er­va McG­ona­gall's, isn't it? But what are they ar­gu­ing about?”

Now Har­ry could hear them too: peo­ple shout­ing and run­ning to­ward the hos­pi­tal wing.

“Re­gret­table, but all the same, Min­er­va -” Cor­nelius Fudge was say­ing loud­ly.

“You should nev­er have brought it in­side the cas­tle!” yelled Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “When Dum­ble­dore finds out -”

Har­ry heard the hos­pi­tal doors burst open. Un­no­ticed by any of the peo­ple around his bed, all of whom were star­ing at the door as Bill pulled back the screens, Har­ry sat up and put his glass­es back on.

Fudge came strid­ing up the ward. Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Snape were at his heels.

“Where's Dum­ble­dore?” Fudge de­mand­ed of Mrs. Weasley.

“He's not here,” said Mrs. Weasley an­gri­ly. “This is a hos­pi­tal wing. Min­is­ter, don't you think you'd do bet­ter to -”

But the door opened, and Dum­ble­dore came sweep­ing up the ward.

“What has hap­pened?” said Dum­ble­dore sharply, look­ing from Fudge to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Why are you dis­turb­ing these peo­ple? Min­er­va, I'm sur­prised at you - I asked you to stand guard over Bar­ty Crouch -”

“There is no need to stand guard over him any­more, Dum­ble­dore!” she shrieked. “The Min­is­ter has seen to that!”

Har­ry had nev­er seen Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall lose con­trol like this. There were an­gry blotch­es of col­or in her cheeks, and a hands were balled in­to fists; she was trem­bling with fury.-

“When we told Mr. Fudge that we had caught the Death Eater re­spon­si­ble for tonight's events,” said Snape, in a low voice; he seemed to feel his per­son­al safe­ty was in ques­tion. He in­sist­ed on sum­mon­ing a de­men­tor to ac­com­pa­ny him in­to the cas­tle. He brought it up to the of­fice where Bar­ty Crouch -"

“I told him you would not agree, Dum­ble­dore!” McG­ona­gall fumed. “I told him you would nev­er al­low de­men­tors to set foot in­side the cas­tle, but -”

“My dear wom­an!” roared Fudge, who like­wise looked an­gri­er than Har­ry had ev­er seen him, “as Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, it is my de­ci­sion whether I wish to bring pro­tec­tion with me when in­ter­view­ing a pos­si­bly dan­ger­ous -”

But Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's voice drowned Fudge's.

“The mo­ment that - that thing en­tered the room,” she screamed, point­ing at Fudge, trem­bling all over, “it swooped down on Crouch and - and -”

Har­ry felt a chill in his stom­ach as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall strug­gled to find words to de­scribe what had hap­pened. He did not need her to fin­ish her sen­tence. He knew what the de­men­tor must have done. It had ad­min­is­tered its fa­tal kiss to Bar­ty Crouch. It had sucked his soul out through his mouth. He was worse than dead.

“By all ac­counts, he is no loss!” blus­tered Fudge. “It seems he has been re­spon­si­ble for sev­er­al deaths'.”

“But he can­not now give tes­ti­mo­ny, Cor­nelius,” said Dum­ble­dore. He was star­ing hard at Fudge, as though see­ing him plain­ly for the first time. “He can­not give ev­idence about why he killed those peo­ple.”

“Why he killed them? Well, that's no mys­tery, is it?” blus­tered Fudge. “He was a rav­ing lu­natic! From what Min­er­va and Severus have told me, he seems to have thought he was do­ing it all on You-​Know-​Who's in­struc­tions!”

“Lord Volde­mort was giv­ing him in­struc­tions, Cor­nelius,” Dum­ble­dore said. “Those peo­ples deaths were mere by-​prod­ucts of a plan to re­store Volde­mort to full strength again. The plan suc­ceed­ed. Volde­mort has been re­stored to his body.”

Fudge looked as though some­one had just swung a heavy weight in­to his face. Dazed and blink­ing, he stared back at Dum­ble­dore as if he couldn't quite be­lieve what he had just heard. He be­gan to sput­ter, still gog­gling at Dum­ble­dore.

“You-​Know-​Who…re­turned? Pre­pos­ter­ous. Come now, Dum­ble­dore…”

“As Min­er­va and Severus have doubt­less told you,” said Dum­ble­dore, “we heard Bar­ty Crouch con­fess. Un­der the in­flu­ence of Ver­itaserum, he told us how he was smug­gled out of Azk­aban, and how Volde­mort - learn­ing of his con­tin­ued ex­is­tence from Bertha Jorkins - went to free him from his fa­ther and used him to cap­ture Har­ry. The plan worked, I tell you. Crouch has helped Volde­mort to re­turn.”

“See here, Dum­ble­dore,” said Fudge, and Har­ry was as­ton­ished to see a slight smile dawn­ing on his face, “you - you can't se­ri­ous­ly be­lieve that You-​Know-​Who - back? Come now, come now…cer­tain­ly, Crouch may have be­lieved him­self to be act­ing up­on You-​Know-​Who's or­ders - but to take the word of a lu­natic like that, Dum­ble­dore…”

“When Har­ry touched the Tri­wiz­ard Cup tonight, he was trans­port­ed straight to Volde­mort,” said Dum­ble­dore steadi­ly. “He wit­nessed Lord Volde­mort's re­birth. I will ex­plain it all to you if you will step up to my of­fice.”

Dum­ble­dore glanced around at Har­ry and saw that he was awake, but shook his head and said, “I am afraid I can­not per­mit you to ques­tion Har­ry tonight.”

Fudge's cu­ri­ous smile lin­gered. He too glanced at Har­ry, then looked back at Dum­ble­dore, and said, “You are - er - pre­pared to take Har­ry's word on this, are you, Dum­ble­dore?”

There was a mo­ment's si­lence, which was bro­ken by Sir­ius growl­ing. His hack­les were raised, and he was bar­ing his teeth at Fudge.

“Cer­tain­ly, I be­lieve Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore. His eyes were blaz­ing now. “I heard Crouch's con­fes­sion, and I heard Har­ry's ac­count of what hap­pened af­ter he touched the Tri­wiz­ard Cup; the two sto­ries make sense, they ex­plain ev­ery­thing that has hap­pened since Bertha Jorkins dis­ap­peared last sum­mer.”

Fudge still had that strange smile on his face. Once again, he glanced at Har­ry be­fore an­swer­ing.

“You are pre­pared to be­lieve that Lord Volde­mort has re­turned, on the word of a lu­natic mur­der­er, and a boy who…well…”

Fudge shot Har­ry an­oth­er look, and Har­ry sud­den­ly un­der­stood.

“You've been read­ing Ri­ta Skeeter, Mr. Fudge,” he said qui­et­ly.

Ron, Hermione, Mrs. Weasley, and Bill all jumped. None of them had re­al­ized that Har­ry was awake.

Fudge red­dened slight­ly, but a de­fi­ant and ob­sti­nate look came over his face.

“And if I have?” he said, look­ing at Dum­ble­dore. “If I have dis­cov­ered that you've been keep­ing cer­tain facts about the boy very qui­et? A Parsel­mouth, eh? And hav­ing fun­ny turns all over the place -”

“I as­sume that you are re­fer­ring to the pains Har­ry has been ex­pe­ri­enc­ing in his scar?” said Dum­ble­dore cool­ly.

“You ad­mit that he has been hav­ing these pains, then?” said Fudge quick­ly. “Headaches? Night­mares? Pos­si­bly - hal­lu­ci­na­tions?”

“Lis­ten to me, Cor­nelius,” said Dum­ble­dore, tak­ing a step to­ward Fudge, and once again, he seemed to ra­di­ate that in­de­fin­able sense of pow­er that Har­ry had felt af­ter Dum­ble­dore had Stunned young Crouch. “Har­ry is as sane as you or I. That scar up­on his fore­head has not ad­dled his brains. I be­lieve it hurts him when Lord Volde­mort is close by, or feel­ing par­tic­ular­ly mur­der­ous.”

Fudge had tak­en half a step back from Dum­ble­dore, but he looked no less stub­born.

“You'll for­give me, Dum­ble­dore, but I've nev­er heard of a curse scar act­ing as an alarm bell be­fore.…”

“Look, I saw Volde­mort come back!” Har­ry shout­ed. He tried to get out of bed again, but Mrs. Weasley forced him back. “I saw the Death Eaters! I can give you their names! Lu­cius Mal­foy -”

Snape made a sud­den move­ment, but as Har­ry looked at him, Snape's eyes flew back to Fudge.

“Mal­foy was cleared!” said Fudge, vis­ibly af­front­ed. “A very old fam­ily - do­na­tions to ex­cel­lent caus­es -”

“Mac­nair!” Har­ry con­tin­ued.

“Al­so cleared! Now work­ing for the Min­istry!”

“Av­ery - Nott - Crabbe - Goyle -”

“You are mere­ly re­peat­ing the names of those who were ac­quit­ted of be­ing Death Eaters thir­teen years ago!” said Fudge an­gri­ly. “You could have found those names in old re­ports of the tri­als! For heav­ens sake, Dum­ble­dore - the boy was full of some crack­pot sto­ry at the end of last year too - his tales are get­ting taller, and you're still swal­low­ing them - the boy can talk to snakes. Dum­ble­dore, and you still think he's trust­wor­thy?”

“You fool!” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall cried. “Cedric Dig­gory! Mr. Crouch! These deaths were not the ran­dom work of a lu­natic!”

“I see no ev­idence to the con­trary!” shout­ed Fudge, now match­ing her anger, his face pur­pling. “It seems to me that you are all de­ter­mined to start a pan­ic that will desta­bi­lize ev­ery­thing we have worked for these last thir­teen years!”

Har­ry couldn't be­lieve what he was hear­ing. He had al­ways thought of Fudge as a kind­ly fig­ure, a lit­tle blus­ter­ing, a lit­tle pompous, but es­sen­tial­ly good-​na­tured. But now a short, an­gry wiz­ard stood be­fore him, re­fus­ing, point-​blank, to ac­cept the prospect of dis­rup­tion in his com­fort­able and or­dered world - to be­lieve that Volde­mort could have risen.

“Volde­mort has re­turned,” Dum­ble­dore re­peat­ed. “If you ac­cept that fact straight­away. Fudge, and take the nec­es­sary mea­sures, we may still be able to save the sit­ua­tion. The first and most es­sen­tial step is to re­move Azk­aban from the con­trol of the de­men­tors -”

“Pre­pos­ter­ous!” shout­ed Fudge again. “Re­move the de­men­tors? I'd be kicked out of of­fice for sug­gest­ing it! Half of us on­ly feel safe in our beds at night be­cause we know the de­men­tors are stand­ing guard at Azk­aban!”

“The rest of us sleep less sound­ly in our beds, Cor­nelius, know­ing that you have put Lord Volde­mort's most dan­ger­ous sup­port­ers in the care of crea­tures who will join him the in­stant he asks them!” said Dum­ble­dore. “They will not re­main loy­al to you, Fudge! Volde­mort can of­fer them much more scope for their pow­ers and their plea­sures than you can! With the de­men­tors be­hind him, and his old sup­port­ers re­turned to him, you will be hard-​pressed to stop him re­gain­ing the sort of pow­er he had thir­teen years ago!”

Fudge was open­ing and clos­ing his mouth as though no words could ex­press his out­rage.

“The sec­ond step you must take - and at once,” Dum­ble­dore pressed on, “is to send en­voys to the gi­ants.”

“En­voys to the gi­ants?” Fudge shrieked, find­ing his tongue again. “What mad­ness is this?”

“Ex­tend them the hand of friend­ship, now, be­fore it is too late,” said Dum­ble­dore, “or Volde­mort will per­suade them, as he did be­fore, that he alone among wiz­ards will give them their rights and their free­dom!”

“You - you can­not be se­ri­ous!” Fudge gasped, shak­ing his head and re­treat­ing fur­ther from Dum­ble­dore. “If the mag­ical com­mu­ni­ty got wind that I had ap­proached the gi­ants - peo­ple hate them, Dum­ble­dore - end of my ca­reer -”

“You are blind­ed,” said Dum­ble­dore, his voice ris­ing now, the au­ra of pow­er around him pal­pa­ble, his eyes blaz­ing once more, “by the love of the of­fice you hold, Cor­nelius! You place too much im­por­tance, and you al­ways have done, on the so-​called pu­ri­ty of blood! You fail to rec­og­nize that it mat­ters not what some­one is born, but what they grow to be! Your de­men­tor has just de­stroyed the last re­main­ing mem­ber of a pure-​blood fam­ily as old as any - and see what that man chose to make of his life! I tell you now- take the steps I have sug­gest­ed, and you will be re­mem­bered, in of­fice or out, as one of the bravest and great­est Min­is­ters of Mag­ic we have ev­er known. Fail to act - and his­to­ry will re­mem­ber you as the man who stepped aside and al­lowed Volde­mort a sec­ond chance to de­stroy the world we have tried to re­build!”

“In­sane,” whis­pered Fudge, still back­ing away. “Mad…”

And then there was si­lence. Madam Pom­frey was stand­ing frozen at the foot of Har­ry's bed, her hands over her mouth. Mrs.Weasley was still stand­ing over Har­ry, her hand on his shoul­der to pre­vent him from ris­ing. Bill, Ron, and Hermione were star­ing at Fudge.

“If your de­ter­mi­na­tion to shut your eyes will car­ry you as far as this, Cor­nelius,” said Dum­ble­dore, “we have reached a part­ing of the ways. You must act as you see fit. And I - I shall act as I see fit.”

Dum­ble­dore's voice car­ried no hint of a threat; it sound­ed like a mere state­ment, but Fudge bris­tled as though Dum­ble­dore were ad­vanc­ing up­on him with a wand.

“Now, see here, Dum­ble­dore,” he said, wav­ing a threat­en­ing fin­ger. “I've giv­en you free rein, al­ways. I've had a lot of re­spect for you. I might not have agreed with some of your de­ci­sions, but I've kept qui­et. There aren't many who'd have let you hire were­wolves, or keep Ha­grid, or de­cide what to teach your stu­dents with­out ref­er­ence to the Min­istry. But if you're go­ing to work against me -”

“The on­ly one against whom I in­tend to work,” said Dum­ble­dore, “is Lord Volde­mort. If you are against him, then we re­main, Cor­nelius, on the same side.”

It seemed Fudge could think of no an­swer to this. He rocked back­ward and for­ward on his small feet for a mo­ment and spun his bowler hat in his hands. Fi­nal­ly, he said, with a hint of a plea in his voice, “He can't be back, Dum­ble­dore, he just can't be…”

Snape strode for­ward, past Dum­ble­dore, pulling up the left sleeve of his robes as he went. He stuck out his fore­arm and showed it to Fudge, who re­coiled.

“There,” said Snape harsh­ly. “There. The Dark Mark. It is not as clear as it was an hour or so ago, when it burned black, but you can still see it. Ev­ery Death Eater had the sign burned in­to him by the Dark Lord. It was a means of dis­tin­guish­ing one an­oth­er, and his means of sum­mon­ing us to him. When he touched the Mark of any Death Eater, we were to Dis­ap­pa­rate, and Ap­pa­rate, in­stant­ly, at his side. This Mark has been grow­ing clear­er all year. Karkaroff's too. Why do you think Karkaroff fled tonight? We both felt the Mark burn. We both knew he had re­turned. Karkaroff fears the Dark Lord's vengeance. He be­trayed too many of his fel­low Death Eaters to be sure of a wel­come back in­to the fold.”

Fudge stepped back from Snape too. He was shak­ing his head. He did not seem to have tak­en in a word Snape had said. He stared, ap­par­ent­ly re­pelled by the ug­ly mark on Snape's arm, then looked up at Dum­ble­dore and whis­pered, “I don't know what you and your staff are play­ing at, Dum­ble­dore, but I have heard enough. I have no more to add. I will be in touch with you to­mor­row, Dum­ble­dore, to dis­cuss the run­ning of this school. I must re­turn to the Min­istry.”

He had al­most reached the door when he paused. He turned around, strode back down the dor­mi­to­ry, and stopped at Har­ry's bed.

“Your win­nings,” he said short­ly, tak­ing a large bag of gold out of his pock­et and drop­ping it on­to Har­ry's bed­side ta­ble. “One thou­sand Galleons. There should have been a pre­sen­ta­tion cer­emo­ny, but un­der the cir­cum­stances…”

He crammed his bowler hat on­to his head and walked out of the room, slam­ming the door be­hind him. The mo­ment he had dis­ap­peared, Dum­ble­dore turned to look at the group around Har­ry's bed.

“There is work to be done,” he said. “Mol­ly…am I right in think­ing that I can count on you and Arthur?”

“Of course you can,” said Mrs. Weasley. She was white to the lips, but she looked res­olute. “We know what Fudge is. It's Arthur's fond­ness for Mug­gles that has held him back at the Min­istry all these years. Fudge thinks he lacks prop­er wiz­ard­ing pride.”

“Then I need to send a mes­sage to Arthur,” said Dum­ble­dore. “All those that we can per­suade of the truth must be no­ti­fied im­me­di­ate­ly, and he is well placed to con­tact those at the Min­istry who are not as short­sight­ed as Cor­nelius.”

“I'll go to Dad,” said Bill, stand­ing up. “I'll go now.”

“Ex­cel­lent,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Tell him what has hap­pened. Tell him I will be in di­rect con­tact with him short­ly. He will need to be dis­creet, how­ev­er. If Fudge thinks I am in­ter­fer­ing at the Min­istry -”

“Leave it to me,” said Bill.

He clapped a hand on Har­ry's shoul­der, kissed his moth­er on the cheek, pulled on his cloak, and strode quick­ly from the room.

“Min­er­va,” said Dum­ble­dore, turn­ing to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “I want to see Ha­grid in my of­fice as soon as pos­si­ble. Al­so - if she will con­sent to come - Madame Maxime.”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall nod­ded and left with­out a word.

“Pop­py,” Dum­ble­dore said to Madam Pom­frey, “would you be very kind and go down to Pro­fes­sor Moody's of­fice, where I think you will find a house-​elf called Winky in con­sid­er­able dis­tress? Do what you can for her, and take her back to the kitchens. I think Dob­by will look af­ter her for us.”

“Very - very well,” said Madam Pom­frey, look­ing star­tled, and she too left.

Dum­ble­dore made sure that the door was closed, and that Madam Pom­frey's foot­steps had died away, be­fore he spoke again.

“And now,” he said, “it is time for two of our num­ber to rec­og­nize each oth­er for what they are. Sir­ius…if you could re­sume your usu­al form.”

The great black dog looked up at Dum­ble­dore, then, in an in­stant, turned back in­to a man.

Mrs. Weasley screamed and leapt back from the bed.

“Sir­ius Black!” she shrieked, point­ing at him.

“Mum, shut up!” Ron yelled. “It's okay!”

Snape had not yelled or jumped back­ward, but the look on his face was one of min­gled fury and hor­ror.

“Him!” he snarled, star­ing at Sir­ius, whose face showed equal dis­like. “What is he do­ing here?”

“He is here at my in­vi­ta­tion,” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing be­tween them, “as are you, Severus. I trust you both. It is time for you to lay aside your old dif­fer­ences and trust each oth­er.”

Har­ry thought Dum­ble­dore was ask­ing for a near mir­acle. Sir­ius and Snape were eye­ing each oth­er with the ut­most loathing.

“I will set­tle, in the short term,” said Dum­ble­dore, with a bite of im­pa­tience in his voice, "for a lack of open hos­til­ity. You will shake hands. You are on the same side now. Time is short, and un­less the few of us who know the truth do not stand unit­ed, there is no hope for any us.

Very slow­ly - but still glar­ing at each oth­er as though each wished the oth­er noth­ing but ill - Sir­ius and Snape moved to­ward each oth­er and shook hands. They let go ex­treme­ly quick­ly.

“That will do to be go­ing on with,” said Dum­ble­dore, step­ping be­tween them once more. “Now I have work for each of you. Fudge's at­ti­tude, though not un­ex­pect­ed, changes ev­ery­thing. Sir­ius, I need you to set off at once. You are to alert Re­mus Lupin, Ara­bel­la Figg, Mundun­gus Fletch­er - the old crowd. Lie low at Lupin's for a while; I will con­tact you there.”

“But -” said Har­ry.

He want­ed Sir­ius to stay. He did not want to have to say good­bye again so quick­ly.

“You'll see me very soon. Har­ry,” said Sir­ius, turn­ing to him. “I promise you. But I must do what I can, you un­der­stand, don't you?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Yeah…of course I do.”

Sir­ius grasped his hand briefly, nod­ded to Dum­ble­dore, trans­formed again in­to the black dog, and ran the length of the room to the door, whose han­dle he turned with a paw. Then he was gone.

“Severus,” said Dum­ble­dore, turn­ing to Snape, “you know what I must ask you to do. If you are ready…if you are pre­pared…”

“I am,” said Snape.

He looked slight­ly paler than usu­al, and his cold, black eyes glit­tered strange­ly.

“Then good luck,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he watched, with a trace of ap­pre­hen­sion on his face, as Snape swept word­less­ly af­ter Sir­ius.

It was sev­er­al min­utes be­fore Dum­ble­dore spoke again.

“I must go down­stairs,” he said fi­nal­ly. “I must see the Dig­gory's. Har­ry - take the rest of your po­tion. I will see all of you lat­er.”

Har­ry slumped back against his pil­lows as Dum­ble­dore dis­ap­peared. Hermione, Ron, and Mrs. Weasley were all look­ing at him. None of them spoke for a very long time.

“You've got to take the rest of your po­tion. Har­ry,” Mrs. Weasley said at last. Her hand nudged the sack of gold on his bed­side cab­inet as she reached for the bot­tle and the gob­let. “You have a good long sleep. Try and think about some­thing else for a while…think about what you're go­ing to buy with your win­nings!”

“I don't want that gold,” said Har­ry in an ex­pres­sion­less voice. “You have it. Any­one can have it. I shouldn't have won it. It should've been Cedric's.”

The thing against which he had been fight­ing on and off ev­er since he had come out of the maze was threat­en­ing to over­pow­er him. He could feel a burn­ing, prick­ling feel­ing in the in­ner cor­ners of his eyes. He blinked and stared up at the ceil­ing.

“It wasn't your fault. Har­ry,” Mrs. Weasley whis­pered.

“I told him to take the cup with me,” said Har­ry.

Now the burn­ing feel­ing was in his throat too. He wished Ron would look away.

Mrs. Weasley set the po­tion down on the bed­side cab­inet, bent down, and put her arms around Har­ry. He had no mem­ory of ev­er be­ing hugged like this, as though by a moth­er. The full weight of ev­ery­thing he had seen that night seemed to fall in up­on him as Mrs. Weasley held him to her. His moth­er's face, his fa­ther's voice, the sight of Cedric, dead on the ground all start­ed spin­ning in his head un­til he could hard­ly bear it, un­til he was screw­ing up his face against the howl of mis­ery fight­ing to get out of him.

There was a loud slam­ming noise, and Mrs. Weasley and Har­ry broke apart. Hermione was stand­ing by the win­dow. She was hold­ing some­thing tight in her hand.

“Sor­ry,” she whis­pered.

“Your po­tion, Har­ry,” said Mrs. Weasley quick­ly, wip­ing her eyes on the back of her hand.

Har­ry drank it in one gulp. The ef­fect was in­stan­ta­neous. Heavy, ir­re­sistible waves of dream­less sleep broke over him; he fell back on­to his pil­lows and thought no more.





HP 4 - Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire





CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN


THE BE­GIN­NING



W hen he looked back, even a month lat­er, Har­ry found he had on­ly scat­tered mem­ories of the next few days. It was as though he had been through too much to take in any more. The rec­ol­lec­tions he did have were very painful. The worst, per­haps, was the meet­ing with the Dig­gory's that took place the fol­low­ing morn­ing.

They did not blame him for what had hap­pened; on the con­trary, both thanked him for re­turn­ing Cedric's body to them. Mr. Dig­gory sobbed through most of the in­ter­view. Mrs. Dig­gory's grief seemed to be be­yond tears.

“He suf­fered very lit­tle then,” she said, when Har­ry had told her how Cedric had died. “And af­ter all, Amos…he died just when he'd won the tour­na­ment. He must have been hap­py.”

When they got to their feet, she looked down at Har­ry and said, “You look af­ter your­self, now.”

Har­ry seized the sack of gold on the bed­side ta­ble.

“You take this,” he mut­tered to her. “It should've been Cedric's, he got there first, you take it -”

But she backed away from him.

“Oh no, it's yours, dear, I couldn't…you keep it.”



Har­ry re­turned to Gryffind­or Tow­er the fol­low­ing evening. From what Hermione and Ron told him, Dum­ble­dore had spo­ken to the school that morn­ing at break­fast. He had mere­ly re­quest­ed that they leave Har­ry alone, that no­body ask him ques­tions or bad­ger him to tell the sto­ry of what had hap­pened in the maze. Most peo­ple, he no­ticed, were skirt­ing him in the cor­ri­dors, avoid­ing his eyes. Some whis­pered be­hind their hands as he passed. He guessed that many of them had be­lieved Ri­ta Skeeter's ar­ti­cle about how dis­turbed and pos­si­bly dan­ger­ous he was. Per­haps they were for­mu­lat­ing their own the­ories about how Cedric had died. He found he didn't care very much. He liked it best when he was with Ron and Hermione and they were talk­ing about oth­er things, or else let­ting him sit in si­lence while they played chess. He felt as though all three of them had reached an un­der­stand­ing they didn't need to put in­to words; that each was wait­ing for some sign, some word, of what was go­ing on out­side Hog­warts - and that it was use­less to spec­ulate about what might be com­ing un­til they knew any­thing for cer­tain. The on­ly time they touched up­on the sub­ject was when Ron told Har­ry about a meet­ing Mrs. Weasley had had with Dum­ble­dore be­fore go­ing home.

“She went to ask him if you could come straight to us this sum­mer,” he said. “But he wants you to go back to the Durs­leys, at least at first.”

“Why?” said Har­ry.

“She said Dum­ble­dore's got his rea­sons,” said Ron, shak­ing his head dark­ly. “I sup­pose we've got to trust him, haven't we?”

The on­ly per­son apart from Ron and Hermione that Har­ry felt able to talk to was Ha­grid. As there was no longer a De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er, they had those lessons free. They used the one on Thurs­day af­ter­noon to go down and vis­it Ha­grid in his cab­in. It was a bright and sun­ny day; Fang bound­ed out of the open door as they ap­proached, bark­ing and wag­ging his tail mad­ly.

“Who's that?” called Ha­grid, com­ing to the door. “Har­ry!”

He strode out to meet them, pulled Har­ry in­to a one-​armed hug, ruf­fled his hair, and said, “Good ter see yeh, mate. Good ter see yeh.”

They saw two buck­et-​size cups and saucers on the wood­en ta­ble in front of the fire­place when they en­tered Ha­grid's cab­in.

“Bin havin' a cup­pa with Olympe,” Ha­grid said. “She's jus' left.”

“Who?” said Ron cu­ri­ous­ly.

“Madame Maxime, o' course!” said Ha­grid.

“You two made up, have you?” said Ron.

“Dun­no what yeh're talkin' about,” said Ha­grid air­ily, fetch­ing more cups from the dress­er. When he had made tea and of­fered around a plate of doughy cook­ies, he leaned back in his chair and sur­veyed Har­ry close­ly through his bee­tle-​black eyes.

“You all righ'?” he said gruffly

“Yeah,” said Har­ry.

“No, yeh're not,” said Ha­grid. “Course yeh're not. But yeh will be.”

Har­ry said noth­ing.

“Knew he was goin' ter come back,” said Ha­grid, and Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione looked up at him, shocked. “Known it fer years. Har­ry. Knew he was out there, bidin' his time. It had ter hap­pen. Well, now it has, an' we'll jus' have ter get on with it. We'll fight. Migh' be able ter stop him be­fore he gets a good hold. That's Dum­ble­dores plan, any­way. Great man, Dum­ble­dore. 'S long as we've got him, I'm not too wor­ried.”

Ha­grid raised his bushy eye­brows at the dis­be­liev­ing ex­pres­sions on their faces.

“No good sit­tin' wor­ryin' abou' it,” he said. “What's comin' will come, an we'll meet it when it does. Dum­ble­dore told me wha' you did. Har­ry.”

Ha­grid's chest swelled as he looked at Har­ry.

“Yeh did as much as yer fa­ther would've done, an' I can' give yeh no high­er praise than that.”

Har­ry smiled back at him. It was the first time he'd smiled in days. “What's Dum­ble­dore asked you to do, Ha­grid?” he asked. “He sent Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall to ask you and Madame Maxime to meet him - that night.”

“Got a lit­tle job fer me over the sum­mer,” said Ha­grid. “Se­cret, though. I'm not s'pposed ter talk abou' it, no, not even ter you lot. Olympe - Madame Maxime ter you - might be comin' with me. I think she will. Think I got her per­suad­ed.”

“Is it to do with Volde­mort?”

Ha­grid flinched at the sound of the name.

“Migh' be,” he said eva­sive­ly. “Now…who'd like ter come an' vis­it the las' skrewt with me? I was jokin' - jokin'!” he added hasti­ly, see­ing the looks on their faces.



It was with a heavy heart that Har­ry packed his trunk up in the dor­mi­to­ry on the night be­fore his re­turn to Priv­et Drive. He was dread­ing the Leav­ing Feast, which was usu­al­ly a cause for cel­ebra­tion, when the win­ner of the In­ter-​House Cham­pi­onship would be an­nounced. He had avoid­ed be­ing in the Great Hall when it was full ev­er since he had left the hos­pi­tal wing, pre­fer­ring to eat when it was near­ly emp­ty to avoid the stares of his fel­low stu­dents.

When he, Ron, and Hermione en­tered the Hall, they saw at once that the usu­al dec­ora­tions were miss­ing. The Great Hall was nor­mal­ly dec­orat­ed with the win­ning House's col­ors for the Leav­ing Feast. Tonight, how­ev­er, there were black drapes on the wall be­hind the teach­ers' ta­ble. Har­ry knew in­stant­ly that they were there as a mark of re­spect to Cedric.

The re­al Mad-​Eye Moody was at the staff ta­ble now, his wood­en leg and his mag­ical eye back in place. He was ex­treme­ly twitchy, jump­ing ev­ery time some­one spoke to him. Har­ry couldn't blame him; Moody's fear of at­tack was bound to have been in­creased by his ten-​month im­pris­on­ment in his own trunk. Pro­fes­sor Karkaroff's chair was emp­ty. Har­ry won­dered, as he sat down with the oth­er Gryffind­ors, where Karkaroff was now, and whether Volde­mort had caught up with him.

Madame Maxime was still there. She was sit­ting next to Ha­grid. They were talk­ing qui­et­ly to­geth­er. Fur­ther along the ta­ble, sit­ting next to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, was Snape. His eyes lin­gered on Har­ry for a mo­ment as Har­ry looked at him. His ex­pres­sion was dif­fi­cult to read. He looked as sour and un­pleas­ant as ev­er. Har­ry con­tin­ued to watch him, long af­ter Snape had looked away.

What was it that Snape had done on Dum­ble­dores or­ders, the night that Volde­mort had re­turned? And why…why…was Dum­ble­dore so con­vinced that Snape was tru­ly on their side? He had been their spy, Dum­ble­dore had said so in the Pen­sieve. Snape had turned spy against Volde­mort, “at great per­son­al risk.” Was that the job he had tak­en up again? Had he made con­tact with the Death Eaters, per­haps? Pre­tend­ed that he had nev­er re­al­ly gone over to Dum­ble­dore, that he had been, like Volde­mort him­self, bid­ing his time?

Har­ry's mus­ings were end­ed by Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, who stood up at the staff ta­ble. The Great Hall, which in any case had been less noisy than it usu­al­ly was at the Leav­ing Feast, be­came very qui­et.

“The end,” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing around at them all, “of an­oth­er year.”

He paused, and his eyes fell up­on the Huf­flepuff ta­ble. Theirs had been the most sub­dued ta­ble be­fore he had got­ten to his feet, and theirs were still the sad­dest and palest faces in the Hall.

“There is much that I would like to say to you all tonight,” said Dum­ble­dore, “but I must first ac­knowl­edge the loss of a very fine per­son, who should be sit­ting here,” he ges­tured to­ward the Huf­flepuffs, “en­joy­ing our feast with us. I would like you all, please, to stand, and raise your glass­es, to Cedric Dig­gory.”

They did it, all of them; the bench­es scraped as ev­ery­one in the Hall stood, and raised their gob­lets, and echoed, in one loud, low, rum­bling voice, “Cedric Dig­gory.”

Har­ry caught a glimpse of Cho through the crowd. There were tears pour­ing silent­ly down her face. He looked down at the ta­ble as they all sat down again.

“Cedric was a per­son who ex­em­pli­fied many of the qual­ities that dis­tin­guish Huf­flepuff house,” Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued. “He was a good and loy­al friend, a hard work­er, he val­ued fair play. His death has af­fect­ed you all, whether you knew him well or not. I think that you have the right, there­fore, to know ex­act­ly how it came about.”

Har­ry raised his head and stared at Dum­ble­dore.

“Cedric Dig­gory was mur­dered by Lord Volde­mort.”

A pan­icked whis­per swept the Great Hall. Peo­ple were star­ing at Dum­ble­dore in dis­be­lief, in hor­ror. He looked per­fect­ly calm as he watched them mut­ter them­selves in­to si­lence.

“The Min­istry of Mag­ic,” Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, “does not wish me to tell you this. It is pos­si­ble that some of your par­ents will be hor­ri­fied that I have done so - ei­ther be­cause they will not be­lieve that Lord Volde­mort has re­turned, or be­cause they think I should not tell you so, young as you are. It is my be­lief, how­ev­er, that the truth is gen­er­al­ly prefer­able to lies, and that any at­tempt to pre­tend that Cedric died as the re­sult of an ac­ci­dent, or some sort of blun­der of his own, is an in­sult to his mem­ory.”

Stunned and fright­ened, ev­ery face in the Hall was turned to­ward Dum­ble­dore now…or al­most ev­ery face. Over at the Slytherin ta­ble. Har­ry saw Dra­co Mal­foy mut­ter­ing some­thing to Crabbe and Goyle. Har­ry felt a hot, sick swoop of anger in his stom­ach. He forced him­self to look back at Dum­ble­dore.

“There is some­body else who must be men­tioned in con­nec­tion with Cedric's death,” Dum­ble­dore went on. “I am talk­ing, of course, about Har­ry Pot­ter.”

A kind of rip­ple crossed the Great Hall as a few heads turned in Har­ry's di­rec­tion be­fore flick­ing back to face Dum­ble­dore.

“Har­ry Pot­ter man­aged to es­cape Lord Volde­mort,” said Dum­ble­dore. “He risked his own life to re­turn Cedric's body to Hog­warts. He showed, in ev­ery re­spect, the sort of brav­ery that few wiz­ards have ev­er shown in fac­ing Lord Volde­mort, and for this, I hon­or him.”

Dum­ble­dore turned grave­ly to Har­ry and raised his gob­let once more. Near­ly ev­ery­one in the Great Hall fol­lowed suit. They mur­mured his name, as they had mur­mured Cedric's, and drank to him. But through a gap in the stand­ing fig­ures. Har­ry saw that Mal­foy, Crabbe, Goyle, and many of the oth­er Slytherins had re­mained de­fi­ant­ly in their seats, their gob­lets un­touched. Dum­ble­dore, who af­ter all pos­sessed no mag­ical eye, did not see them.

When ev­ery­one had once again re­sumed their seats, Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, “The Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment's aim was to fur­ther and pro­mote mag­ical un­der­stand­ing. In the light of what has hap­pened - of Lord Volde­mort's re­turn - such ties are more im­por­tant than ev­er be­fore.”

Dum­ble­dore looked from Madame Maxime and Ha­grid, to Fleur Dela­cour and her fel­low Beaux­ba­tons stu­dents, to Vik­tor Krum and the Durm­strangs at the Slytherin ta­ble. Krum, Har­ry saw, looked wary, al­most fright­ened, as though he ex­pect­ed Dum­ble­dore to say some­thing harsh.

“Ev­ery guest in this Hall,” said Dum­ble­dore, and his eyes lin­gered up­on the Durm­strang stu­dents, "will be wel­comed back here at any time, should they wish to come. I say to you all, once again - in the light of Lord Volde­mort's re­turn, we are on­ly as strong as we are unit­ed, as weak as we are di­vid­ed. Lord Volde­mort's gift for spread­ing dis­cord and en­mi­ty is very great. We can fight it on­ly by show­ing an equal­ly strong bond of friend­ship and trust. Dif­fer­ences of habit and lan­guage are noth­ing at all if our aims are iden­ti­cal and our hearts are open.

"It is my be­lief- and nev­er have I so hoped that I am mis­tak­en - that we are all fac­ing dark and dif­fi­cult times. Some of you in this Hall have al­ready suf­fered di­rect­ly at the hands of Lord Volde­mort. Many of your fam­ilies have been torn asun­der. A week ago, a stu­dent was tak­en from our midst.

“Re­mem­ber Cedric. Re­mem­ber, if the time should come when you have to make a choice be­tween what is right and what is easy, re­mem­ber what hap­pened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, be­cause he strayed across the path of Lord Volde­mort. Re­mem­ber Cedric Dig­gory.”



Har­ry's trunk was packed; Hed­wig was back in her cage on top of it. He, Ron, and Hermione were wait­ing in the crowd­ed en­trance hall with the rest of the fourth years for the car­riages that would take them back to Hogsmeade sta­tion. It was an­oth­er beau­ti­ful sum­mer's day. He sup­posed that Priv­et Drive would be hot and leafy, its flow­er beds a ri­ot of col­or, when he ar­rived there that evening. The thought gave him no plea­sure at all.

“'Ar­ry!”

He looked around. Fleur Dela­cour was hur­ry­ing up the stone steps in­to the cas­tle. Be­yond her, far across the grounds. Har­ry could see Ha­grid help­ing Madame Maxime to back two of the gi­ant hors­es in­to their har­ness. The Beaux­ba­tons car­riage was about to take off.

“We will see each uzzer again, I 'ope,” said Fleur as she reached him, hold­ing out her hand. “I am 'op­ing to get a job 'ere, to im­prove my Eenglish.”

“It's very good al­ready,” said Ron in a stran­gled sort of voice. Fleur smiled at him; Hermione scowled.

“Good-​bye, 'Ar­ry,” said Fleur, turn­ing to go. “It 'az been a plea­sure meet­ing you!”

Har­ry's spir­its couldn't help but lift slight­ly as he watched Fleur hur­ry back across the lawns to Madame Maxime, her sil­very hair rip­pling in the sun­light.

Won­der how the Durm­strang stu­dents are get­ting back,“ said Ron. ”D' you reck­on they can steer that ship with­out Karkaroff?"

“Karkaroff did not steer,” said a gruff voice. “He stayed in his cab­in and let us do the vork.”

Krum had come to say good-​bye to Hermione. “Could I have a vord?” he asked her.

“Oh…yes…all right,” said Hermione, look­ing slight­ly flus­tered, and fol­low­ing Krum through the crowd and out of sight.

“You'd bet­ter hur­ry up!” Ron called loud­ly af­ter her. “The car­riages'll be here in a minute!”

He let Har­ry keep a watch for the car­riages, how­ev­er, and spent the next few min­utes cran­ing his neck over the crowd to try and see what Krum and Hermione might be up to. They re­turned quite soon. Ron stared at Hermione, but her face was quite im­pas­sive.

“I liked Dig­gory,” said Krum abrupt­ly to Har­ry. “He vos al­vays po­lite to me. Al­vays. Even though I vos from Durm­strang - with Karkaroff,” he added, scowl­ing.

“Have you got a new head­mas­ter yet?” said Har­ry

Krum shrugged. He held out his hand as Fleur had done, shook Har­ry's hand, and then Ron's. Ron looked as though he was suf­fer­ing some sort of painful in­ter­nal strug­gle. Krum had al­ready start­ed walk­ing away when Ron burst out, “Can I have your au­to­graph?”

Hermione turned away, smil­ing at the horse­less car­riages that were now trundling to­ward them up the drive, as Krum, look­ing sur­prised but grat­ified, signed a frag­ment of parch­ment for Ron.



The weath­er could not have been more dif­fer­ent on the jour­ney back to King's Cross than it had been on their way to Hog­warts the pre­vi­ous Septem­ber. There wasn't a sin­gle cloud in the sky. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had man­aged to get a com­part­ment to them­selves. Pig­wid­geon was once again hid­den un­der Ron's dress robes to stop him from hoot­ing con­tin­ual­ly; Hed­wig was doz­ing, her head un­der her wing, and Crook­shanks was curled up in a spare seat like a large, fur­ry gin­ger cush­ion. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione talked more ful­ly and freely than they had all week as the train sped them south­ward. Har­ry felt as though Dum­ble­dore's speech at the Leav­ing Feast had un­blocked him, some­how. It was less painful to dis­cuss what had hap­pened now. They broke off their con­ver­sa­tion about what ac­tion Dum­ble­dore might be tak­ing, even now, to stop Volde­mort on­ly when the lunch trol­ley ar­rived.

When Hermione re­turned from the trol­ley and put her mon­ey back in­to her school­bag, she dis­lodged a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet that she had been car­ry­ing in there. Har­ry looked at it, un­sure whether he re­al­ly want­ed to know what it might say, but Hermione, see­ing him look­ing at it, said calm­ly, “There's noth­ing in there. You can look for your­self, but there's noth­ing at all. I've been check­ing ev­ery day. Just a small piece the day af­ter the third task say­ing you won the tour­na­ment. They didn't even men­tion Cedric. Noth­ing about any of it. If you ask me. Fudge is forc­ing them to keep qui­et.”

“He'll nev­er keep Ri­ta qui­et,” said Har­ry. “Not on a sto­ry like this.”

“Oh, Ri­ta hasn't writ­ten any­thing at all since the third task,” said Hermione in an odd­ly con­strained voice. “As a mat­ter of fact,” she added, her voice now trem­bling slight­ly, “Ri­ta Skeeter isn't go­ing to be writ­ing any­thing at all for a while. Not un­less she wants me to spill the beans on her.”

“What are you talk­ing about?” said Ron.

“I found out how she was lis­ten­ing in on pri­vate con­ver­sa­tions when she wasn't sup­posed to be com­ing on­to the grounds,” said Hermione in a rush.

Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Hermione had been dy­ing to tell them this for days, but that she had re­strained her­self in light of ev­ery­thing else that had hap­pened.

“How was she do­ing it?” said Har­ry at once.

“How did you find out?” said Ron, star­ing at her.

“Well, it was you, re­al­ly, who gave me the idea. Har­ry,” she said.

“Did I?” said Har­ry, per­plexed. “How?”

“Bug­ging,” said Hermione hap­pi­ly.

“But you said they didn't work -”

“Oh not elec­tron­ic bugs,” said Hermione. “No, you see…Ri­ta Skeeter” - Hermione's voice trem­bled with qui­et tri­umph - “is an un­reg­is­tered An­ima­gus. She can turn -”

Hermione pulled a small sealed glass jar out oth­er bag.

“- in­to a bee­tle.”

“You're kid­ding,” said Ron. “You haven't…she's not…”

“Oh yes she is,” said Hermione hap­pi­ly, bran­dish­ing the jar at them.

In­side were a few twigs and leaves and one large, fat bee­tle.

“That's nev­er - you're kid­ding -” Ron whis­pered, lift­ing the jar to his eyes.

“No, I'm not,” said Hermione, beam­ing. “I caught her on the win­dowsill in the hos­pi­tal wing. Look very close­ly, and you'll no­tice the mark­ings around her an­ten­nae are ex­act­ly like those foul glass­es she wears.”

Har­ry looked and saw that she was quite right. He al­so re­mem­bered some­thing.

“There was a bee­tle on the stat­ue the night we heard Ha­grid telling Madame Maxime about his mum!”

“Ex­act­ly,” said Hermione. “And Vik­tor pulled a bee­tle out of my hair af­ter we'd had our con­ver­sa­tion by the lake. And un­less I'm very much mis­tak­en, Ri­ta was perched on the win­dowsill of the Div­ina­tion class the day your scar hurt. She's been buzzing around for sto­ries all year.”

“When we saw Mal­foy un­der that tree…” said Ron slow­ly.

“He was talk­ing to her, in his hand,” said Hermione. “He knew, of course. That's how she's been get­ting all those nice lit­tle in­ter­views with the Slytherins. They wouldn't care that she was do­ing some­thing il­le­gal, as long as they were giv­ing her hor­ri­ble stuff about us and Ha­grid.”

Hermione took the glass jar back from Ron and smiled at the bee­tle, which buzzed an­gri­ly against the glass.

“I've told her I'll let her out when we get back to Lon­don,” said Hermione. “I've put an Un­break­able Charm on the jar, you see, so she can't trans­form. And I've told her she's to keep her quill to her­self for a whole year. See if she can't break the habit of writ­ing hor­ri­ble lies about peo­ple.”

Smil­ing serene­ly, Hermione placed the bee­tle back in­side her school­bag.

The door of the com­part­ment slid open.

“Very clever. Granger,” said Dra­co Mal­foy.

Crabbe and Goyle were stand­ing be­hind him. All three of them looked more pleased with them­selves, more ar­ro­gant and more men­ac­ing, than Har­ry had ev­er seen them.

“So,” said Mal­foy slow­ly, ad­vanc­ing slight­ly in­to the com­part­ment and look­ing slow­ly around at them, a smirk quiv­er­ing on his lips. “You caught some pa­thet­ic re­porter, and Pot­ter's Dum­ble­dore's fa­vorite boy again. Big deal.”

His smirk widened. Crabbe and Goyle leered.

“Try­ing not to think about it, are we?” said Mal­foy soft­ly, look­ing around at all three of them. “Try­ing to pre­tend it hasn't hap­pened?”

“Get out,” said Har­ry.

He had not been this close to Mal­foy since he had watched him mut­ter­ing to Crabbe and Goyle dur­ing Dum­ble­dores speech about Cedric. He could feel a kind of ring­ing in his ears. His hand gripped his wand un­der his robes.

“You've picked the los­ing side, Pot­ter! I warned you! I told you you ought to choose your com­pa­ny more care­ful­ly, re­mem­ber? When we met on the train, first day at Hog­warts? I told you not to hang around with riffraff like this!” He jerked his head at Ron and Hermione. “Too late now. Pot­ter! They'll be the first to go, now the Dark Lord's back! Mud­bloods and Mug­gle-​lovers first! Well - sec­ond - Dig­gory was the f-”

It was as though some­one had ex­plod­ed a box of fire­works with­in the com­part­ment. Blind­ed by the blaze of the spells that had blast­ed from ev­ery di­rec­tion, deaf­ened by a se­ries of bangs, Har­ry blinked and looked down at the floor.

Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle were all ly­ing un­con­scious in the door­way. He, Ron, and Hermione were on their feet, all three of them hav­ing used a dif­fer­ent hex. Nor were they the on­ly ones to have done so.

“Thought we'd see what those three were up to,” said Fred mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly, step­ping on­to Goyle and in­to the com­part­ment. He had his wand out, and so did George, who was care­ful to tread on Mal­foy as he fol­lowed Fred in­side.

“In­ter­est­ing ef­fect,” said George, look­ing down at Crabbe. “Who used the Fur­nun­cu­lus Curse?”

“Me,” said Har­ry.

“Odd,” said George light­ly. “I used Jel­ly-​Legs. Looks as though those two shouldn't be mixed. He seems to have sprout­ed lit­tle ten­ta­cles all over his face. Well, let's not leave them here, they don't add much to the decor.”

Ron, Har­ry, and George kicked, rolled, and pushed the un­con­scious Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle - each of whom looked dis­tinct­ly the worse for the jum­ble of jinx­es with which they had been hit - out in­to the cor­ri­dor, then came back in­to the com­part­ment and rolled the door shut.

“Ex­plod­ing Snap, any­one?” said Fred, pulling out a pack of cards.

They were halfway through their fifth game when Har­ry de­cid­ed to ask them.

“You go­ing to tell us, then?” he said to George. “Who you were black­mail­ing?”

“Oh,” said George dark­ly. “That.”

“It doesn't mat­ter,” said Fred, shak­ing his head im­pa­tient­ly. “It wasn't any­thing im­por­tant. Not now, any­way.”

“We've giv­en up,” said George, shrug­ging.

But Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione kept on ask­ing, and fi­nal­ly, Fred said, “All right, all right, if you re­al­ly want to know…it was Lu­do Bag­man.”

“Bag­man?” said Har­ry sharply. “Are you say­ing he was in­volved in -”

“Nah,” said George gloomi­ly. “Noth­ing like that. Stupid git. He wouldn't have the brains.”

“Well, what, then?” said Ron.

Fred hes­itat­ed, then said, “You re­mem­ber that bet we had with him at the Quid­ditch World Cup? About how Ire­land would win, but Krum would get the Snitch?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry and Ron slow­ly.

“Well, the git paid us in lep­rechaun gold he'd caught from the Irish mas­cots.”

“So?”

“So,” said Fred im­pa­tient­ly, “it van­ished, didn't it? By next morn­ing, it had gone!”

“But - it must've been an ac­ci­dent, mustn't it?” said Hermione.

George laughed very bit­ter­ly.

“Yeah, that's what we thought, at first. We thought if we just wrote to him, and told him he'd made a mis­take, he'd cough up. But noth­ing do­ing. Ig­nored our let­ter. We kept try­ing to talk to him about it at Hog­warts, but he was al­ways mak­ing some ex­cuse to get away from us.”

“In the end, he turned pret­ty nasty,” said Fred. “Told us we were too young to gam­ble, and he wasn't giv­ing us any­thing.”

“So we asked for our mon­ey back,” said George glow­er­ing.

“He didn't refuse!” gasped Hermione.

“Right in one,” said Fred.

“But that was all your sav­ings!” said Ron.

“Tell me about it,” said George. “'Course, we found out what was go­ing on in the end. Lee Jor­dan's dad had had a bit of trou­ble get­ting mon­ey off Bag­man as well. Turns out he's in big trou­ble with the gob­lins. Bor­rowed loads of gold off them. A gang of them cor­nered him in the woods af­ter the World Cup and took all the gold he had, and it still wasn't enough to cov­er all his debts. They fol­lowed him all the way to Hog­warts to keep an eye on him. He's lost ev­ery­thing gam­bling. Hasn't got two Galleons to rub to­geth­er. And you know how the id­iot tried to pay the gob­lins back?”

“How?” said Har­ry.

“He put a bet on you, mate,” said Fred. “Put a big bet on you to win the tour­na­ment. Bet against the gob­lins.”

“So that's why he kept try­ing to help me win!” said Har­ry. “Well - I did win, didn't I? So he can pay you your gold!”

“Nope,” said George, shak­ing his head. “The gob­lins play as dirty as him. They say you drew with Dig­gory, and Bag­man was bet­ting you'd win out­right. So Bag­man had to run for it. He did run for it right af­ter the third task.”

George sighed deeply and start­ed deal­ing out the cards again.

The rest of the jour­ney passed pleas­ant­ly enough; Har­ry wished it could have gone on all sum­mer, in fact, and that he would nev­er ar­rive at King's Cross…but as he had learned the hard way that year, time will not slow down when some­thing un­pleas­ant lies ahead, and all too soon, the Hog­warts Ex­press was pulling in at plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters. The usu­al con­fu­sion and noise filled the cor­ri­dors as the stu­dents be­gan to dis­em­bark. Ron and Hermione strug­gled out past Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle, car­ry­ing their trunks. Har­ry, how­ev­er, stayed put.

“Fred - George - wait a mo­ment.”

The twins turned. Har­ry pulled open his trunk and drew out his Tri­wiz­ard win­nings.

“Take it,” he said, and he thrust the sack in­to George's hands.

“What?” said Fred, look­ing flab­ber­gast­ed.

“Take it,” Har­ry re­peat­ed firm­ly. “I don't want it.”

“You're men­tal,” said George, try­ing to push it back at Har­ry.

“No, I'm not,” said Har­ry. “You take it, and get in­vent­ing. It's for the joke shop.”

“He is men­tal,” Fred said in an al­most awed voice.

“Lis­ten,” said Har­ry firm­ly. “If you don't take it, I'm throw­ing it down the drain. I don't want it and I don't need it. But I could do with a few laughs. We could all do with a few laughs. I've got a feel­ing we're go­ing to need them more than usu­al be­fore long.”

“Har­ry,” said George weak­ly, weigh­ing the mon­ey bag in his hands, “there's got to be a thou­sand Galleons in here.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, grin­ning. “Think how many Ca­nary Creams that is.”

The twins stared at him.

“Just don't tell your mum where you got it…al­though she might not be so keen for you to join the Min­istry any­more, come to think of it.…”

“Har­ry,” Fred be­gan, but Har­ry pulled out his wand.

“Look,” he said flat­ly, “take it, or I'll hex you. I know some good ones now. Just do me one fa­vor, okay? Buy Ron some dif­fer­ent dress robes and say they're from you.”

He left the com­part­ment be­fore they could say an­oth­er word, step­ping over Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who were still ly­ing on the floor, cov­ered in hex marks.

Un­cle Ver­non was wait­ing be­yond the bar­ri­er. Mrs. Weasley was close by him. She hugged Har­ry very tight­ly when she saw him and whis­pered in his ear, “I think Dum­ble­dore will let you come to us lat­er in the sum­mer. Keep in touch, Har­ry.”

“See you. Har­ry,” said Ron, clap­ping him on the back.

“'Bye, Har­ry!” said Hermione, and she did some­thing she had nev­er done be­fore, and kissed him on the cheek.

“Har­ry - thanks,” George mut­tered, while Fred nod­ded fer­vent­ly at his side.

Har­ry winked at them, turned to Un­cle Ver­non, and fol­lowed him silent­ly from the sta­tion. There was no point wor­ry­ing yet, he told him­self, as he got in­to the back of the Durs­leys' car.

As Ha­grid had said, what would come, would come…and he would have to meet it when it did.





